PHOENIX, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global engineering and risk mitigation consultancy Telgian Engineering & Consulting, LLC (TEC) today announced the appointment of Leonard Ramo as President. TEC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Telgian Holdings, Inc., provides professional services related to fire protection, life safety, security, risk analysis, environmental health and safety, emergency management/operations continuity and related sustainability (LEED) strategies.
Ramo joined Telgian Corporation nearly 20 years ago as a loss control engineer and worked his way up to management and executive positions, advising clients ranging from Fortune 500 companies to private institutions and public and private corporations across the globe. He is internationally recognized for his leadership in fire protection engineering and role in developing international codes and standards as part of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). He serves as president of the Central Gulf Coast Chapter Society of Fire Protection Engineers and is a member of the Society of Fire Protection Engineers, National Society of Professional Engineers and Society of American Military Engineers.
"Len is a model of what one can achieve at Telgian," said Jim Tomes, president and CEO. "He has grown immeasurably in his time here and because of his hard work, dedication to the team, embracement of Telgian culture and unwavering commitment to customer service. We have the utmost confidence in his ability to lead our engineering and consulting efforts."
Ramo is a licensed Professional Engineer (PE) in all 50 states and select Canadian provinces. He is a Certified Fire Protection Specialist (CFPS) and holds a U.S. Department of Homeland Security CVI certification.
He is a graduate of the Thomas J. Watson School of Engineering and Applied Science at Binghamton University and resides in Mobile, Alabama.
About Telgian Engineering & Consulting
Telgian Engineering & Consulting, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Telgian Holdings, Inc., is a full service global engineering and risk mitigation consultancy specializing in complex, multi‐discipline public and private sector projects. TEC provides professional services related to the protection of people, property, information and organizational mission against preventable losses. Professional service offerings include: emergency management; environmental health & safety; fire protection engineering; risk management & loss control; security risk consulting; and related engineering and design, sustainable (LEED) strategies and construction administration services. To learn more about Telgian contact tec@telgian.com or visit http://www.telgian.com/.
Media Inquiries Contact:
Kristy Lucero
Heidi Moore
Lovell Communications
Telgian Corporation
kristy@lovell.com
hmoore@telgian.com
615‐297‐7766
480‐292‐8080
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/leonard-ramo-appointed-president-of-telgian-engineering--consulting-300578959.html
SOURCE Telgian Corporation