SUNRISE, Fla., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Via OTC PR Wire -- Profile Solutions, Inc. (OTC:PSIQ) announced today it has acquired Elite Products International, Inc.
Elite Products International
Elite Products International
Elite Products International
Elite Products International
Profile is entering the emerging Cannabis, Cannabinoid and Hemp market to distribute and manufacture cutting-edge Cannabis, Cannabinoid and Hemp extracts in the form of edibles, creams, oils, and salves for humans and pets ( www.elitehempproducts.com ). Profiles initial focus shall be Cannabinoid ("CBD").
CBD is the part of the cannabis plant that doesn't get you "high" like the THC side of the plant. CBD products are either derived from industrial hemp plants or marijuana plants. CBD is typically used for health reasons such as pain, stress and anxiety relief instead of for recreational purposes. According to a 2013 review published in the British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology , studies have found CBD to possess medical properties to act as an Analgesic, Anxiolytic, Anti-Depressant, Anti-inflammatory and others. The Hemp Business Journal estimated that the CBD market will grow to a $2.1 billion market in consumer sales by 2020 with $450 million of those sales coming from hemp-based sources, a 700% increase from 2016. In 2015, the market for consumer sales of hemp-derived CBD products was $90 million, plus another $112 million in marijuana-derived CBD products which were sold through dispensaries bringing a total CBD market to $202 million last year.
Currently there are 29 states plus DC that have legalized medical marijuana including 8 states which have legalized recreational marijuana.
"We intend to aggressively expand our operations by providing quality hemp-based products at affordable prices to satisfy the demand and requirements of our current and future clients," stated Dan Oran, CEO of Profile Solutions, Inc.
About Profile Solutions
Profile Solutions, Inc. through its subsidiary Elite Products International, Inc. is a leading distributor and manufacturer in the cannabinoid (CBD) industry. The Company's products contain cutting-edge CBD Hemp extracts in the form of edibles, creams, oils, and salves. Additionally, the company developed and currently has working prototypes of a climate controlled positive identification secure depository. The CannaSafe is based on remote keyfob or fingerprint biometric access to the device. The Cannasafe was developed to store critical medications or valuables and keep them out of the reach of children or unauthorized access. Please visit the company website at www.elitehempproducts.com , Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/EliteProductsINTL/ , Instagram https://www.instagram.com/elite_hemp/ , Linkedin at https://www.linkedin.com/in/elite-hemp-products-3a863914a/ ,Twitter at https://twitter.com/EliteHemp_Intl and Blog: https://www.elitehempproducts.com/blog .
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that can be identified by terminology such as "believes," "expects," "potential," "plans," "suggests," "may," "should," "could," "intends," or similar expressions. Many forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results or implied by such statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, our ability to continue to enhance our products and systems to address industry changes, our ability to expand our customer base and retain existing customers, our ability to effectively compete in our market segment, the lack of public information on our company, our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our business, operations, our ability to continue as a going concern, and a limited public market for our common stock, among other risks. Many factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond the company's control. Forward-looking statements speak only as to the date they are made and we do not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made.
For information, please contact:
Dan Oran, President
Profile Solutions, Inc.
8411 West Oakland Park Blvd.
Suite 201
Sunrise, FL 33351
danoran@aol.com
(844) 856-8838
Photos accompanying this announcement are available at:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/794175a5-0350-463c-afd6-af090601c43c
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/3cf38bd1-eece-4043-898f-c4787b1da922
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/41d05469-7ace-4e7b-8aa1-a75476db23bd
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/819889cd-b4a2-476b-ac31-9a5728f462e1
Source:Profile Solutions, Inc.