TORONTO, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - Corus Entertainment Inc. (TSX: CJR.B) will release its first quarter financial results on Wednesday, January 10, 2018 .
A conference call with Corus senior management will take place at 9 a.m. ET / 8 a.m. CT / 7 a.m. MT / 6 a.m. PT . While this call is directed at analysts and investors, members of the media are welcome to listen in.
The dial-in number for the conference call is 1.800.734.8582 (toll-free North America) or 416.981.9027 (local or international).
Please call five to 10 minutes before the scheduled start time. This conference call will also be available through a live webcast on the Corus Entertainment website, www.corusent.com , in the Investor Relations section. PowerPoint slides will be posted 15 minutes prior to the start of this call on www.corusent.com in the Investor Relations section.
This call will be archived and available for replay on www.corusent.com in the Investor Relations section beginning January 10, 2018 at 12 p.m. ET.
PLEASE NOTE: Corus Entertainment's Annual General Meeting of Shareholders will also take place on Wednesday, January 10, 2018 beginning at 4 p.m. ET / 3 p.m. CT / 2 p.m. MT / 1 p.m. PT. A live webcast of the AGM will be available on the Corus Entertainment website, www.corusent.com , in the Investor Relations section.
If you would like to be added to the Company's distribution list for conference call notices/press releases, please send your request to investor.relations@corusent.com .
About Corus Entertainment Inc.
Corus Entertainment Inc. (TSX: CJR.B) is a leading media and content company that creates and delivers high quality brands and content across platforms for audiences around the world. The company's portfolio of multimedia offerings encompasses 45 specialty television services, 39 radio stations, 15 conventional television stations, a global content business, digital assets, live events, children's book publishing, animation software, technology and media services. Corus' roster of premium brands includes Global Television, W Network, OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network Canada, HGTV Canada, Food Network Canada, HISTORY®, Showcase, National Geographic Channel, Q107, CKNW, Fresh Radio, Disney Channel Canada, YTV and Nickelodeon Canada. Visit Corus at www.corusent.com .
SOURCE Corus Entertainment Inc.