OLATHE, Kan., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Terracon is pleased to announce the expansion of its facilities services capabilities through the acquisition of Engineered Concepts of Greensboro, N.C., effective immediately. Terracon retains Engineered Concepts' 10 employees.
Engineered Concepts, founded in 1991, specializes in building enclosure, structural engineering, and facility investigation services. The company serves a range of clients in the commercial, education, and government sectors on projects throughout the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. Engineered Concepts' experience in building enclosure design and investigation, as well as its structural expertise in new construction, rehabilitation, and preservation, reinforces Terracon's facilities capabilities and strengthens the firm's national resources and ability to serve clients.
"We are excited for Engineered Concepts to become part of Terracon's national facilities practice," said Bill Brickey, P.E., Terracon Facilities Division manager. "Their significant building enclosure and structural diagnostics experience complements our existing facilities services and will be an asset in providing great value and solutions to our clients."
Engineered Concepts' professionals hold licensures in 11 states. Their combined experience in building enclosure design and investigation, structural expertise in new construction, rehabilitation, and preservation, reinforces and deepens Terracon's facilities capabilities in the Greensboro area and nationally.
"Terracon's building enclosure and other facilities services are a great fit with our company," said Rob Kennerly Jr., P.E., president and co-founder of Engineered Concepts. "We look forward to working together to bring an expanded complement of capabilities and resources to our clients going forward."
Engineered Concepts will operate as Terracon Consultants, Inc. dba Engineered Concepts.
Terracon is an employee-owned consulting engineering firm with more than 4,000 employees providing environmental, facilities, geotechnical, and materials services from more than 140 offices with services available in all 50 states. Terracon currently ranks 30th on Engineering News-Record's list of the Top 500 Design Firms. For additional information about Terracon, visit www.terracon.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/terracon-expands-facilities-services-with-north-carolina-acquisition-300577741.html
SOURCE Terracon