LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Leading global commercial real estate services firm Colliers International Group Inc. today announced that Mike Kendall has joined the company as Executive Managing Director, Investment Services, Western Region. Kendall, a seasoned and well-respected commercial real estate services professional, will focus on growing the company’s Capital Markets Services platform.
“Attracting top-tier talent like Mike is a game-changer for Colliers and is another important step in our commitment to growth in the most important market in the world,” said Marty Pupil, President | U.S. Brokerage. “Adding Mike to our growing Capital Markets platform will help Colliers win new business and further position the company as the commercial real estate services firm of choice.”
Kendall has more than 20 years of experience in all sectors of commercial real estate, including brokerage, development, acquisitions, construction and more. He joins Colliers from CBRE, where he was a member a high-performing Capital Markets team. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of Development and Director of Acquisitions for Turner Development and held the same position at Koll Development prior to that.
“I am delighted to be joining a company with such an entrepreneurial and energetic culture,” said Mike Kendall. “The company’s enterprising spirit, matched with a market-leading global platform, will provide clients the best possible service in the industry.”
“This hire is the latest in a series of strategic moves to further position our platform as the leading global real estate services provider,” said Dylan Taylor, President and COO of Colliers International. “Our focus on adding top talent speaks to Colliers’ unwavering commitment to delivering service excellence to our clients and supporting our professionals, to accelerate success.”
About Colliers International Group Inc.
Colliers International Group Inc. is an industry leading global real estate services company with 15,000 skilled professionals operating in 68 countries. With an enterprising culture and significant employee ownership, Colliers professionals provide a full range of services to real estate occupiers, owners and investors worldwide. Services include strategic advice and execution for property sales, leasing and finance; global corporate solutions; property, facility and project management; workplace solutions; appraisal, valuation and tax consulting; customized research; and thought leadership consulting.
Colliers professionals think differently, share great ideas and offer thoughtful and innovative advice that helps clients accelerate their success. Colliers has been ranked among the top 100 global outsourcing firms by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals for 12 consecutive years, more than any other real estate services firm. Colliers also has been ranked the top property manager in the world by Commercial Property Executive for two years in a row.
For the latest news from Colliers, visit Colliers.com or follow us on Twitter (@Colliers) and LinkedIn .
For further information, please contact:
Kellyn Curtis
Havas PR
Phone: 972-816-1355
Email: Kellyn.Curtis@Havas.com
Source:Colliers International Group Inc.