You don't need much to whip up a hearty and delicious breakfast. In fact, with just a microwave and five minutes, you can produce a perfectly poached or sunny-side up egg. 
Read on for more genius egg hacks, provided by Tasty , that will save you time — and, if you get in the habit of going homemade rather than paying for a breakfast sandwich every morning, you can save lots of money in the long run, too.
1. Peel a hard-boiled egg in 10 seconds without even touching it Fill a shallow, plastic Tupperware container halfway with cold water. Place your hard-boiled egg in the container, seal it and then shake it vigorously for about 10 seconds.
The shell will slide right off, leaving you with the perfect egg.
2. Poach an egg in the microwave Fill a 1-cup mug or bowl with ½ cup of water and crack an egg into the water. Cover the mug with a small plate and stick it in the microwave for 1 minute.
Use a slotted spoon to transfer your perfectly poached egg to a plate.
3. Make the perfect hard-boiled egg in a coffee pot Place three eggs in the glass pitcher of the coffee maker. Pour six cups of water into the reservoir of the coffee machine and allow the water to drip over the eggs until they are completely submerged.
Let the eggs sit in the hot water for 10 minutes. Remove the eggs, peel and serve.
4. Remove tiny eggshells with a piece of eggshell The next time you crack an egg and there's a tiny piece of shell at the bottom, remove it quickly and efficiently with a bigger piece of the eggshell.
It works like a charm, thanks to the sharp edge of the eggshell that can cut through the egg whites.
5. Make the perfect sunny-side up egg in the microwave Preheat a small plate or shallow bowl in the microwave for two minutes. Remove it carefully using an oven mitt, lightly grease it with ½ teaspoon of butter and crack one egg onto the plate.
Lightly prick the yolk with the tip of a knife so the egg won't explode in the microwave. Put the plate back in the microwave for 50 seconds and you'll end up with the perfect sunny-side up egg.
Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook ! 
Don't miss: 7 legit meals you can make in a microwave that will save you time and money 

show chapters Basic knife skills you should master in your 20s      7:00 AM ET Wed, 27 Dec 2017 | 06:19