CLINTON TOWNSHIP, Mich., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Tweddle Group President and CEO Paul Wilbur has announced two promotions within the company's leadership team. Tina Stuart has been appointed the company's Chief Operating Officer and former COO Brian Suszek has assumed the role of Chief Business Development Officer.
Stuart has kind words for her predecessor, and is enthusiastic about joining the leadership team. "I have always appreciated Brian," Stuart says. "He listens well, offers thought-provoking feedback and helps people see other perspectives. Brian lets teams work autonomously but if someone needs support, he's always right there. I know I have big shoes to fill. I look forward to bringing my own perspective and leadership experience to this role."
Regarding Stuart's promotion, Wilbur praises her expertise and commitment to the company's strategic goals. "Tina's mastery of operations management made her an ideal candidate," Wilbur says.
Suszek will now oversee Tweddle Group's new business pipeline and spearhead understanding of customer needs. The promotion comes after 24 years with the company. "I'm so excited to serve our customers and employees in this new role," Suszek says. "The company has an excellent business development team. We're primed to work together to bring Tweddle Group's unique value to our clients."
The moves were made to capitalize on 2017 automotive sales and to support the company's 2018 growth and diversification initiatives.
To learn more about Tweddle Group, visit www.tweddle.com
About Tweddle Group
With offices around the globe, Tweddle Group leads the world in Vehicle Owner's Information and technical communication for automotive OEMs and their suppliers. Tweddle Group's unique service package encompasses content development, management and delivery. Tweddle Group also custom-builds groundbreaking diagnostic repair and vehicle health tools for plants, dealerships and technicians. Multiple OEMs rely on Tweddle Group to create innovative solutions that increase customer satisfaction. For more information, please visit www.tweddle.com .
Media Contact:
Paul Arnegard
Tweddle Group, Inc.
parnegard@tweddle.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/leadership-appointments-support-2018-tweddle-group-business-strategy-300586587.html
SOURCE Tweddle Group