OMAHA, Neb., Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- West Corporation , a leading global provider of technology-driven communication services, today announced it has acquired the assets of PhoneTree, a provider of automated appointment reminder services and patient communication software to physician practices, enterprise healthcare organizations and other niche vertical markets.
PhoneTree was founded in 1989 and has grown to serve thousands of customers today. PhoneTree’s operations will be integrated with West’s Interactive Services Healthcare business.
“PhoneTree has been a pioneer in the automated messaging industry,” said Skip Hanson, president of West’s Interactive Services segment. “We are excited to add the PhoneTree team, clients and channel partners to West as we continue to lead our industry and serve our clients.”
About West Corporation:
West Corporation is a leading global provider of technology-driven communication services that help its clients more effectively communicate, collaborate and connect with their audiences through a diverse portfolio of solutions. These solutions include unified communications services, safety services, interactive services such as automated notifications, specialized agent services and telecom services.
For over 30 years, West has provided reliable, high-quality voice and data services. West has sales and/or operations in the United States, Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Latin America and South America. For more information, please call 1-800-841-9000 or visit www.west.com .
Forward-Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be generally identified by the use of words such as "may," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "intends," "continue" or similar terminology. These statements reflect only West's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance or results. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, competition in West’s highly competitive markets; increases in the cost of voice and data services or significant interruptions in these services; West’s ability to keep pace with its clients’ needs for rapid technological change and systems availability; the continued deployment and adoption of emerging technologies; the loss, financial difficulties or bankruptcy of any key clients; security and privacy breaches of the systems West uses to protect personal data; the effects of global economic trends on the businesses of West’s clients; the non-exclusive nature of West’s client contracts and the absence of revenue commitments; the cost of pending and future litigation; the cost of defending against intellectual property infringement claims; the effects of extensive regulation affecting many of West’s businesses; West’s ability to protect its proprietary information or technology; service interruptions to West’s data and operation centers; West’s ability to retain key personnel and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees; increases in labor costs and turnover rates; the political, economic and other conditions in the countries where West operates; changes in foreign exchange rates; West’s ability to complete future acquisitions, integrate or achieve the objectives of its recent and future acquisitions; and future impairments of our substantial goodwill, intangible assets, or other long-lived assets. In addition, West is subject to risks related to its level of indebtedness. Such risks include West’s ability to generate sufficient cash to service its indebtedness and fund its other liquidity needs; West’s ability to comply with covenants contained in its debt instruments; West’s ability to obtain additional financing; the incurrence of significant additional indebtedness by West and its subsidiaries; and the ability of West’s lenders to fulfill their lending commitments. West is also subject to other risk factors described in documents filed by the Company with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and in its offering memorandum for its unsecured notes.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. West undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by applicable law.
AT THE COMPANY: Dave Pleiss Investor Relations West Corporation (402) 963-1500 DMPleiss@west.com
Source:West Corporation