NEW YORK, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- KPMG LLP has agreed to acquire the Identity and Access Management business of Silicon Valley-based Cyberinc, which provides cyber security solutions globally. Cyberinc, the largest independent identity and access management (IAM) technology provider in the world, will enhance KPMG's existing capabilities as a leader in information security consulting services* and expand the firm's ability to provide clients with emerging and more agile IAM solutions. The transaction also bolsters KPMG's talent and resources in the rapidly growing area of digital consumer identity and privileged user management, which are evolving security-focused capabilities to enhance important elements of customer-engagement.
"Cyber security remains a top risk to organizations as threats grow in scale and cyber criminals develop new ways to access protected information," said Lynne Doughtie, U.S. Chairman and CEO of KPMG LLP. "KPMG's identity and access management solutions team can assist clients, across all industries, protect their information and enable their digital strategies and growth plans."
Cyberinc's IAM business is a 190-person global team with significant presence in the U.S., India, Australia, and the U.K., and extensive experience providing advisory, strategy, implementation services, and managed services for organizations that need to transform their enterprise or consumer identity capabilities.
"Over the last decade, Cyberinc's IAM business has risen to industry leadership position on the strength of some of the largest IAM deployments globally, investments in IP and an array of premium partnerships. I am very pleased that Cyberinc's truly world class team will continue this journey with KPMG," said Samir Shah, CEO, Cyberinc. "Cyber threats continue to accelerate and remain a top business risk. This transaction will allow us to sharply focus on
Isla - our industry leading Malware Isolation Platform."
KPMG's strong position with existing information security alliance partners Oracle and Sailpoint, along with KPMG's recently announced alliance with Ping Identity , will be further enhanced by the transaction with Cyberinc to better enable information protection for large enterprises while pursuing new digital interactions and business transformations.
"As organizations innovate and transform their back, middle and front offices, identity and access management solutions that effectively bridge the gap between risk mitigation and customer experience are key to driving sustainable growth," said Tony Buffomante, U.S. Leader of KPMG's Cyber Security Services practice. "The addition of the Cyberinc team and capabilities is yet another example of how KPMG is investing in cyber security and helping clients succeed on their digital journey."
Cyberinc is a subsidiary of Aurionpro Solutions Limited - a global technology product and solution provider, headquartered in Mumbai, India and San Ramon, California. The Cyberinc transaction is KPMG's second acquisition in this area, following the October 2014 acquisition of certain assets of Qubera Solutions, a privately-held Redwood City, C.A. - based cyber security firm that provides IAM services.
About KPMG
KPMG LLP, the audit, tax and advisory firm ( www.kpmg.com/us ), is the independent U.S. member firm of KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"). We operate in 154 countries and with more than 197,000 people working in member firms around the world. The independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss entity. Each KPMG firm is a legally distinct and separate entity and describes itself as such. KPMG International has been named a Leader in the Forrester Research Inc. report, The Forrester Wave TM , Information Security Consulting Services, Q3 2017.
About Cyberinc
Cyberinc offerings include secure, scalable, high performance security products that protect from cyber-attacks, and solutions that help enterprises transition to next generation access management systems. Our flagship product offering, the Isla Malware Isolation platform can help deliver complete freedom from web based malware attacks. Combining our best in class products and services enables clients to effectively address their toughest cyber security challenges. For more information, please visit www.cyberinc.com
Contacts:
Christine Curtin / Michael Rudnick
KPMG LLP
201-307-8663 / 201-307-7398
ccurtin@kpmg.com / mrudnick@kpmg.com
Balaji Desikamani
Cyberinc
+1 925-309-7083
Balaji.desikamani@cyberinc.com
*according to The Forrester Wave TM , Information Security Consulting Services, Q3 2017
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kpmg-to-acquire-global-identity-and-access-management-business-of-cyberinc-300576806.html
SOURCE KPMG LLP