NEW YORK, Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- SmartMetric, Inc. (OTCQB:SMME) – SmartMetric, the developer of the Biometric Credit Card and Cyber/Access/Identity multi-function security card, is pleased to announce that it has entered into an agreement with Protec Secure Card (“PSC”) headquartered in New Jersey. The agreement appoints PSC as the National Distributor for SmartMetric's Biometric Security Cards within the USA.
We are extremely excited with our new relationship with PROTEC, who have years of experience in the Credit Card industry both in the USA and Latin America, SmartMetric’s President and CEO, Chaya Hendrick said today. PROTEC Secure Card are credit card manufacturers who have a Visa, MasterCard and Discover accredited manufacturing facility in the USA.
SmartMetric has been awarded five (5) patents covering biometric fingerprint cards with additional patents pending. The company has spent more than a decade and many millions of dollars in developing its miniature biometric fingerprint scanner that sits inside a standard chip credit card.
SmartMetric has created a miniature biometric fingerprint scanner that fits inside credit cards and security cards providing high level biometric security for chip based credit cards, enterprise and government cyber security and access control cards. The intellectual property of the SmartMetric biometric card is protected by five (5) recently “issued” patents.
PSC is an established Visa, MasterCard and Discover certified credit card manufacturer that specializes in advanced high-quality credit card production for card issuing Banks in the United States along with Central and Latin America. The company is a leader using the most updated equipment and technologies in their secure production facility.
For more information concerning the new biometric secured credit and security card from PSC, please contact Tracey Breckenridge at traceyb@protecsecurecard.com .
SmartMetric is a leading company in the field of biometrics using fingerprint scanning. It manufacturers a super thin fingerprint reader that fits inside credit card thin cards, for payments and security.
To find out more about the SmartMetric biometric card solution please visit the company site at www.smartmetric.com .
To view the SmartMetric Biometric Card please follow this link - Video of the SmartMetric Biometric Card
Safe Harbor Statement: Forward-Looking Statements in this press release, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Also such forward-looking statements are within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "may," "could," "expect," "intend," "plan," "seek," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," "likely," "will," "would" and variations of these terms and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by us and our management, are inherently uncertain. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, among others, if we are unable to access the capital necessary to fund current operations or implement our plans for growth; changes in the competitive environment in our industry and the markets where we operate; our ability to access the capital markets; and other risks discussed in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which filings are available from the SEC. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are made as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any of these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, new information or future events, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking statements, except to the extent required by applicable laws. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.
Important Additional Information
Investors and security holders are urged to carefully review and consider each of SmartMetric Inc. public filings with the SEC, including but not limited to, if applicable, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, proxy statements, Current Reports on Form 8-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Contact Information
SmartMetric, Inc.
3960 Howard Hughes Parkway
Las Vegas, NV 89169
+1.702.990.3687 (West Coast Time)
+1.702.727.8811 (East Coast Time)
info@smartmetric.com
www.smartmetric.com
Protec Secure Card
80 Corbett Way
Eatontown, NJ 07724
Tracey Breckenridge
Tel. +1-732-542-0700 x 223/ 221/ 206/ 207 (English)
+1-732-542-0700 x 241 (Spanish)
traceyb@protecsecurecard.com
Source:SmartMetric Inc