BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bluegreen Vacations Corporation (“Bluegreen Vacations” or “Bluegreen"), (NYSE: BXG), a leading vacation ownership company, today announced the appointment of three new Executive Vice Presidents, as well as the creation of two new Corporate Development roles.
Effective immediately, Tony Puleo, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and President, Bluegreen Treasury Services; Chanse Rivera, Chief Information Officer; and Susan Saturday, Chief Human Resources Officer, have each been promoted to Executive Vice President of their respective functions.
In addition, Ahmad M. Wardak now transitions into a newly created role of Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Innovation. Mr. Wardak will focus on identifying new strategic opportunities both internally and across the vacation industry landscape, and will lead acquisition and business partner integrations on behalf of the organization. Peter Menges, formerly Senior Vice President, Bluegreen Ventures, will now be expanding his role as Senior Vice President Customer Acquisition and Alliances. Mr. Menges will be responsible for introducing new customers to Bluegreen through the development and management of Bluegreen’s vacation package sales efforts, owner referral programs, and strategic alliance relationships, including Bass Pro and Choice Hotels.
“We have completed an exciting 2017, which included expanding our marketing relationships and our successful initial public offering,” said Shawn B. Pearson, CEO and President, Bluegreen Vacations. “These leadership changes, recognizing each individuals’ track record and significant contribution to our success to date, will help position Bluegreen in the vacation ownership industry in 2018 and beyond.”
About Bluegreen Vacations Corporation:
Bluegreen Vacations Corporation, founded in 1966 and headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida, is a leading vacation ownership company that markets and sells vacation ownership interests (VOIs) and manages resorts in top leisure and urban destinations. The Bluegreen Vacation Club is a flexible, points-based, deeded vacation ownership plan with approximately 211,000 owners, 67 Club and Club Associate Resorts and access to more than 11,000 other hotels and resorts through partnerships and exchange networks. Bluegreen Vacations also offers a portfolio of comprehensive, fee-based resort management, financial, and sales and marketing services, to or on behalf of third parties. Bluegreen is 90% owned by BBX Capital Corporation. For further information, visit www.BluegreenVacations.com .
About BBX Capital Corporation :
BBX Capital Corporation (NYSE: BBX) (OTCQX: BBXTB), formerly BFC Financial Corporation, is a diversified holding company whose activities include its approximate 90% ownership of Bluegreen Vacations Corporation and, through its Real Estate and Middle Market Divisions, the acquisition, ownership and management of joint ventures and investments in real estate and real estate development projects and middle market operating businesses. As of June 30, 2017, BBX Capital had total consolidated assets of $1.5 billion. For further information, visit www.BBXCapital.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005604/en/
Bluegreen Press Contact:
Jennifer Williams, 561-912-8266
Jennifer.Williams@BluegreenVacations.com
or
BBX Capital Corporation:
Investor Relations:
Leo Hinkley, 954-940-5300
Managing Director, Investor Relations Officer
LHinkley@BBXCapital.com
Source: Bluegreen Vacations Corporation