NORWALK, Conn., Winchester Interconnect Corporation ("Winchester"), a portfolio company of Snow Phipps Group ("Snow Phipps"), announced today that it completed its acquisition of C&M Corporation ("C&M" or the "Company") from The Watermill Group ("Watermill"). Headquartered in Dayville, CT, C&M is a producer of custom cable focused on the Industrial, Medical and Military markets. The acquisition of C&M complements Winchester's product line by adding cable manufacturing capabilities.
Kevin Perhamus , CEO of Winchester, said, "This acquisition marks the largest in Winchester's history and provides us with access to the attractive industrial automation market. The complementary nature of that market and C&M's cable manufacturing product line will allow us to vertically integrate the Company and its products, and we look forward to working with the experienced C&M management team to drive growth and explore all the opportunities this combination will deliver."
John Pless , Partner at Snow Phipps, said, "The acquisition further establishes Winchester as a market leader of connectivity solutions to customers across the globe. We will continue to work with the Winchester team to aggressively grow the business both organically and through acquisitions, and are excited about the addition of the C&M team and product portfolio."
John Laskowsky, CEO of C&M, said, "All of us at C&M are excited to join the Winchester team. As part of Winchester, we will continue our commitment to our customers while leveraging all that the combined company has to offer to find new avenues for growth."
ABOUT WINCHESTER INTERCONNECT CORPORATION
For over 75 years, Winchester has been a leading provider of custom engineered interconnect solutions for diverse, growing end markets requiring high reliability and application specific expertise. Winchester's world class design and engineering capabilities enable it to solve interconnect problems when downtime of the application can result in significant economic losses to the customer. The Company's complex, custom connectors and engineered cable assemblies transmit power and data to numerous global, blue-chip OEMs. Winchester's strategic global footprint, supported by nine centers of excellence, provide local engineering and sales support to its customers. For more information about Winchester, visit http://www.winconn.com/ .
ABOUT SNOW PHIPPS GROUP
Snow Phipps is a private equity firm focused on middle-market control investments, targeting platform companies with enterprise values ranging from $100 million to $500 million. The firm utilizes an operating partner model to invest across the industrials, services, and consumer industries and seeks value creation through an operationally focused strategy. To learn more about Snow Phipps, visit www.snowphipps.com .
 releases/winchester-interconnect-corporation-announces-the-acquisition-of-cm-corporation-300576816.html
SOURCE Snow Phipps Group