WASHINGTON, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- THRUUE is pleased to announce that James E. Williams, who as president and CEO of Easter Seals helped turn the organization into a national force for social good, has been named the first Executive in Residence of THRUUE, Inc.
Williams helped Easter Seals grow into a multi-billion dollar organization and the largest national service provider for children and adults living with disabilities including autism. His leadership experience and long track record working with corporate boards will provide crucial guidance and insight to companies looking to close the gap between their strategy and culture.
"I am delighted to join the THRUUE team," Williams said. "I look forward to helping both profit and non-profit companies and organizations align their culture and strategy."
In addition to his work at Easter Seals, Williams currently serves as Chairman of the National Trust for Our Wounded and as a director of the United States Veterans Chamber of Commerce. He also served as Chairman of the National Health Council, as Chair of the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities and on the Pfizer Advisory Board on Patient Engagement and the Advisory Board of Campaign Partners.
Other boards he has served on include the National Alliance for Hispanic Health, the Elizabeth Dole Foundation for Military Caregivers, the Institute for Philanthropy, the National Foundation for Dentistry for People with Disabilities, the JM Foundation Search for Excellence, the Missouri Commission on Comprehensive Health Planning, and the Montessori School of Lake Forest.
As Executive in Residence, Williams will be responsible for expanding THRUUE's strategic planning and culture change offerings, identifying market trends and expansion opportunities and advising CEOs on social impact, business and governance. He will be based in Chicago and Washington.
"Jim is a national leader and a professional CEO who has helped people with disabilities achieve success for decades," THRUUE CEO Daniel Forrester said. "Companies and organizations realize that to be successful they need to align their corporate culture with their business objectives and also be a force for social good. Jim is going to be an integral part of strengthening our expertise in corporate social responsibility and increasing our client's employee and customer loyalty. Jim knows that making a profit remains a necessary goal of every company, but he also sees the awakening of the C-suite to clarity of purpose, values and vision."
Contact: Emily Paquin ( emily@thruue.com )
Related Links
THRUUE
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jim-williams-named-executive-in-residence-at-thruue-300590250.html
SOURCE THRUUE, Inc.