NASHVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Genesco Inc. (NYSE: GCO) announced today that Danny Ewoldsen has been named president of the Company's Johnston & Murphy division, effective February 4, 2018.
A 15-year veteran of Johnston & Murphy, Ewoldsen most recently served as Executive Vice President, Retail and eCommerce. As president, he will expand his responsibilities to include the division's wholesale and retail operations. Ewoldsen will report to Jon Caplan, Senior Vice President of Genesco and Chief Executive Officer of Johnston & Murphy and Genesco Branded Group.
"Danny has been instrumental in successfully driving change through Johnston & Murphy's direct to consumer businesses. His focus on ensuring our organization provides the very best customer service regardless of where and how our customer shops, along with his passion for developing and mentoring high performing teams and approach to overall brand management will build on the Johnston & Murphy legacy and continue the positive momentum we have established over the recent years. Our past has been exceptional, but I am confident that our future is even brighter," said Caplan.
About Genesco Inc.
Genesco Inc., a Nashville-based specialty retailer, sells footwear, headwear, sports apparel and accessories in more than 2,725 retail stores and leased departments throughout the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Germany, principally under the names Journeys, Journeys Kidz, Shi by Journeys, Schuh, Schuh Kids, Little Burgundy, Lids, Locker Room by Lids, Lids Clubhouse, Johnston & Murphy, and on internet websites www.journeys.com , www.journeyskidz.com , www.journeys.ca , www.shibyjourneys.com , www.schuh.co.uk , www.littleburgundyshoes.com , www.johnstonmurphy.com , www.lids.com , www.lids.ca , www.lidslockerroom.com , www.lidsclubhouse.com , www.trask.com , and www.dockersshoes.com . The Company's Lids Sports Group division operates the Lids headwear stores, the Locker Room by Lids and other team sports fan shops and single team clubhouse stores. In addition, Genesco sells wholesale footwear under its Johnston & Murphy brand, the Trask brand, the licensed Dockers brand, G.H. Bass & Co., and other brands. For more information on Genesco and its operating divisions, please visit www.genesco.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ewoldsen-named-president-of-johnston--murphy-300589032.html
SOURCE Genesco Inc.