NEW YORK, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- New York Life Investment Management (NYLIM) announced today that Ian Forrest has joined the company as global chief marketing officer. In this newly created role, he will be responsible for NYLIM's marketing strategies across its entire business, including the firm's U.S. intermediary and global alternatives and institutional efforts. He reports to Kirk Lehneis, chief operating officer of NYLIM.
"Our appointment of Ian, a recognized global leader in developing transformational marketing organizations, shows our commitment to building a centralized, strategic marketing function that drives our business forward," said Mr. Lehneis. "As we look to evolve our marketing efforts and build our digital capabilities, Ian's expertise in leveraging data, analytics, segmentation and brand strategy will help us to reach clients in new and innovative ways."
Yie-Hsin Hung, CEO of NYLIM, added, "As NYLIM has grown from a U.S.-focused organization to a $316 billion global asset manager, we've been evolving the core functions of our business to meet the growing needs of our clients. Ian's track record and global asset management experience make him well positioned to help us enhance NYLIM's marketing organization and accelerate our growth."
Mr. Forrest most recently served as managing director and chief marketing officer for the EMEA region at BlackRock Asset Management. In that role, he was responsible for a large marketing team that launched lead generation programs across multiple countries and revamped BlackRock's digital presence, including its social media and web properties. Mr. Forrest also led the implementation of a new marketing technology platform that seamlessly integrated with the firm's Client Relationship Management System.
Previously, Mr. Forrest held several executive roles at GE, including Chief Marketing Officer, GE Capital – GE's global finance arm, where he helped restore their middle-market lending business following the financial crisis – as well as Chief Marketing Officer positions with both GE Software and GE Appliances. He also served in senior brand and marketing roles with GE Capital in Prague and Dublin.
Mr. Forrest has an MBA in Strategy and Marketing from the Peter F. Drucker Graduate School of Management and a BS in Economics from the University of Southern California.
About New York Life
New York Life Insurance Company, a Fortune 100 company founded in 1845, is the largest mutual life insurance company in the United States* and one of the largest life insurers in the world. New York Life has the highest possible financial strength ratings currently awarded to any life insurer from all four of the major credit rating agencies: A.M. Best (A++), Fitch (AAA), Moody's Investors Service (Aaa), Standard & Poor's (AA+). ** Headquartered in New York City, New York Life's family of companies offers life insurance, retirement income, investments and long-term care insurance. New York Life Investments*** provides institutional asset management. Other New York Life affiliates provide an array of securities products and services, as well as retail mutual funds. Visit www.newyorklife.com for more information.
New York Life Investment Management LLC, an indirect subsidiary of New York Life Insurance Company, New York, NY 10010, provides investment advisory products and services. IndexIQ Advisors LLC is the wholly owned subsidiary of New York Life Investment Management Holdings LLC.
*Based on revenue as reported by "Fortune 500 ranked within Industries, Insurance: Life, Health (Mutual)," Fortune magazine, 6/12/17. For methodology, please see http://fortune.com/fortune500/ .
**Individual independent rating agency commentary as of 8/1/17.
***New York Life Investments is a service mark used by New York Life Investment Management Holdings LLC and its subsidiary, New York Life Investment Management LLC.
Media Contact
Allison Scott
New York Life
212-576-4517
allison_scott@newyorklife.com
Ariel Kouvaras
Sloane & Company
212-446-1884
akouvaras@sloanepr.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ian-forrest-joins-new-york-life-investment-management-as-global-chief-marketing-officer-300580531.html
SOURCE New York Life Investment Management