KANSAS CITY, Missouri, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Investment banking firm George K. Baum & Company ("GKB") announced today that it has expanded its Kansas and Missouri presence with the addition of eight accomplished public finance professionals. The group brings extensive banking relationships from some of Kansas and Missouri's largest and most innovative issuers.
"This team of tenured, experienced and highly successful professionals will help solidify George K. Baum & Company as a market leader in Kansas and Missouri," said CEO Jon Baum. "I'd like to extend my respect and gratitude to Jack Holland. Not only is Jack a highly respected public finance professional, he deserves great credit for developing this strong team of professionals who now call GKB their new home."
Jack Holland, Senior Vice President
Mr. Holland entered the investment banking business in 1976. His experience includes a broad range of public finance activities with a special emphasis on the development and implementation of non-traditional financing methods. Mr. Holland has been involved in more than $20 billion in public financings for issuers throughout the Midwest and Southwest, and has participated in some of Kansas City's most significant financings over the last 20 years.
"We look forward to the opportunity to continue our focus on the needs of municipal issuers and help expand such a well-established public finance practice," said Senior Vice President Jack Holland.
Michael Short, Senior Vice President
Mr. Short served ten years as a Platte County Commissioner and serves as lead banker for many local government issuers in Missouri. He has specialized knowledge in the structuring of neighborhood improvement districts and revenue bonds in the state of Missouri.
Matt Webster, First Vice President
Mr. Webster has worked in public finance since 1985. He has extensive experience in public/private bond financings, working on projects including hotels, retail and office developments, arenas, sports stadiums, and special financing districts throughout the Midwest.
Karolyn Cline, Vice President
Ms. Cline has more than 14 years' experience in structuring various types of local government financings and coordinating the rating agency process. Prior to her role in public finance, she spent 11 years as a project manager for a financial services firm.
Stan Jones, Vice President
Mr. Jones has worked in a variety of financial positions including vice president and commercial loan officer in the banking industry. Most recently, he served as the director of bond services for the Kansas State Treasurer's Office managing all aspects of the bond department and serving as a legislative liaison for the Treasurer in matters involving the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System (KPERS).
John McArthur, Senior Municipal Finance Banker
Mr. McArthur has more than 40 years of investment banking experience. He has extensive knowledge in the Kansas marketplace as a public finance professional with emphasis on engagements with cities, counties and school districts.
Ike Parsons, Senior Municipal Finance Banker
Mr. Parsons has more than 40 years' experience in the public finance industry as a banker, analyst and project coordinator. His work has encompassed a wide variety of issues for varied participants in the municipal capital markets.
Joanne Huey, Administrative Assistant
Ms. Huey began her public finance career in 1999. She assists bankers in various day-to-day operations including research, coordination and dissemination of bond offering documents and tailoring marketing materials for clients.
About George K. Baum & Company
Founded in 1928, George K. Baum & Company ( www.gkbaum.com ) is one of the nation's most accomplished privately held investment banking firms and has been at the pinnacle of financing the nation's infrastructure for more than nine decades. GKB is recognized as an industry leader in the structuring, underwriting and marketing of taxable and tax-exempt municipal securities.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/george-k-baum--company-strengthens-established-public-finance-presence-with-addition-of-top-industry-talent-300581031.html
SOURCE George K. Baum & Company