LOVELAND, Colo., Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lightning Systems, a global developer of efficiency and emissions improvement solutions for fleets, today announced Mark McGrew as Director of Sales – North America.
In this position, McGrew will be responsible for leading sales and business development efforts for all Lightning Systems' products in North America. His primary responsibilities will include identifying and securing business opportunities with commercial and government fleets throughout North America.
McGrew joins Lightning Systems with an 18-year background in national account sales, marketing, sales management and customer service, with vehicle manufacturers serving refuse, food and beverage delivery, package delivery and government fleets. Most recently, McGrew was the vice president of sales for Parker Hybrid Drive Systems Division where he sold more than $10 million dollars in hybrid transmissions into the Class 8 refuse market. Prior to Parker, Mark was director of sales for Navistar International Corporation, where he was responsible for sales of International's all-electric step vans.
"Mark understands commercial and government fleets, and their need for uptime, vehicle efficiency, and sustainability," said David Brosky, vice president of sales for Lightning Systems. "He's been on the front line of bringing sustainable transportation solutions to the commercial and government fleet market and he's poised to help us lead the transformation as the industry moves to cleaner, more responsible vehicle technologies that get the job done."
Lightning Systems recently announced its new LightningElectric zero-emissions package for the heavy-duty Ford Transit as part of Ford's eQVM program. Conversions and service are performed by Ford QVM partners and dealers around the world. Orders are being taken for the LightningElectric Ford Transit now, with limited-time rebates available, and delivery of first orders in March and April.
About Lightning Systems
Lightning Systems, based in Loveland, Colo., is a leader in efficiency and emissions improvement solutions for fleets around the world. The company's products include: LightningElectric, a zero-emissions full-electric fleet vehicle; LightningAnalytics, a cloud-based analytics system for fleet vehicles; LightningHybrid, a hydraulic hybrid energy recovery system for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles; and a variety of other fleet fuel efficiency and emissions improvement products to be introduced in 2018 and 2019. To learn more, visit www.lightningsystems.com .
Contact:
Bonnie Trowbridge
(303) 519-4144
188613@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lightning-systems-appoints-mark-mcgrew-director-of-sales-for-north-america-300581611.html
SOURCE Lightning Systems