BOSTON, Noteflight, a Hal Leonard company, has announced that John Mlynczak has been promoted to Managing Director. Previously the VP of Sales and Marketing, Mlynczak has been overseeing all sales, marketing, and business development activities at the company. This new position expands upon these duties and allows John to lead the entire Noteflight team forward with some exciting new initiatives in 2018. An experienced musician and music educator with a focus on music technology, composition, and arranging, he will continue to represent Noteflight at conferences and trade shows and will offer professional development for educators and sessions for retailers to help them provide a variety of technology solutions from Noteflight/Hal Leonard.
Mlynczak has an extensive range of experiences in music education and the music industry. John has taught music, music technology, and music business at the elementary, secondary, and collegiate levels, is an active performer, and is a highly sought-after clinician on music technology and music advocacy. He is currently President of the Technology Institute for Music Educators and an Adjunct Professor of Music Technology at LSU. He serves on the NAMM Support Music and State Advocacy Coalitions, the NAfME Advocacy Leadership Force, and is Advocacy Chairman for the Massachusetts Music Educators Association. Mlynczak holds a Bachelor's Degree in Music Education from Virginia Commonwealth University, and Master's Degrees in both Music Performance and Educational Leadership from Louisiana State University.
As part of this leadership change, Joe Berkovitz, the founder of Noteflight, will continue to work with the company in a part-time consulting role, advising the company on technology developments and other strategic priorities.
About Noteflight
Founded in 2008 and headquartered in Boston, MA, Noteflight, LLC is dedicated to reinventing the way people create, share and use written music. Noteflight allows users to edit, display, play back and share music notation in a web browser, on any device. Noteflight has an active online community of over 3,000,000 music enthusiasts. Its website hosts millions of user-created musical scores, both public and private. Noteflight addresses both individual music-makers and music educators at all levels with its family of products, available by online subscription. Noteflight also licenses its technology to industry leaders to manage scalable cloud-based repositories of sheet music that can be delivered to any device.
For more information, visit www.noteflight.com .
About Hal Leonard Corporation
Founded in 1947, Hal Leonard Corporation is the world's largest music print publisher and digital content provider, producing educational publications, songbooks, sheet music, reference books, DVDs, magazines, eBooks, digital sheet music, apps and more. The company is also a major distributor of music technology products, selling and marketing the most popular software, hard goods and accessories available today, to musicians and recording enthusiasts around the world. In its more than 220,000 available publications and products, Hal Leonard represents many of the world's best known and most respected publishers, artists, songwriters, arrangers and manufacturers. The company is headquartered in Milwaukee, WI and also has domestic offices in Winona, MN; New Jersey; and Boston, and offices abroad in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, Holland, Italy, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. For more information, visit www.halleonard.com .
Media Contact
Ben Turcotte, Digital Marketing Manager
ben@noteflight.com
Related Images
image1.png
John Mlynczak
image2.jpg
Hal Leonard
image3.png
Noteflight
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/john-mlynczak-promoted-to-managing-director-of-noteflight-300584466.html
SOURCE Noteflight