Des Moines, Iowa, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Joel Nelson, president and CEO of LCS announced today that Chris Bird will be joining LCS in February to lead the company’s rental division. He will be charged with leading all aspects of the rental company including operations, occupancy development, and new business growth.
Chris Bird, EVP/Director of Rental for LCS
“Chris brings 22 years of senior housing experience in the rental and CCRC spaces, a strong foundation in marketing and sales, and is a respected voice with industry capital partners,” says Joel Nelson, president and CEO. “LCS has a very strong and talented management team. Balancing the team with Chris’s industry experience outside of LCS will be a true complement to our entire organization.”
Bird has extensive senior living experience with a track record in leading operations, building occupancy, fostering capital partner relationships in the real estate and developing new business. Most recently, he has served on the Brookdale Senior Living leadership team as division president. Prior to joining Brookdale, Bird spent seven years working at Marriott Senior Living Services, which was later acquired by Sunrise Senior Living.
“I’m looking forward to this opportunity,” says Bird. “LCS has a strong culture and a long tradition of focusing on its mission of superior service to seniors.”
About LCS®
Based in Des Moines, Iowa, and established in 1971, LCS is a leading provider of high-quality senior lifestyle products and services. The LCS Family of Companies focus on development, operations management, marketing and sales management, and strategic planning for Life Plan Communities, also referred to as Continuing Care Retirement Communities (CCRC), and rental independent living, assisted living, and memory care communities nationwide. The company also provides a full-service real estate private equity enterprise, insurance, national purchasing consulting services and in-home care. The companies of LCS serve thousands of seniors across the nation. For more information, visit LCSnet.com .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/04865003-6b33-4864-8d3f-30f12a2bea13
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/078cf957-b965-41e9-922c-657172bfe1d1
Jeri Uhlmansiek LCS 515.875.4500 uhlmansiekjeri@lcsnet.com
Source: LCS