NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WeissLaw LLP is investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law by the Board of Directors of Bioverativ Inc. ("BIVV" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: BIVV) in connection with the proposed acquisition of the Company by French drugmaker Sanofi S.A. ("Sanofi"). Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive $105.00 in cash for each BIVV share they own.
WeissLaw is investigating whether BIVV's Board acted to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. Notably, in its latest financial release, the Company announced impressive financial results. It reported a 27.2% annual increase in revenue and Non-GAAP operating margin of 45.7%.
Additionally, the acquisition is a strategic transaction from which Sanofi will benefit greatly. According to Sanofi's Chief Executive Officer, the acquisition "enhances [Sanofi's] presence in specialty care and . . . creates a platform for growth in other rare blood disorders."
Given these facts, WeissLaw is investigating whether BIVV's Board acted in the best interests of BIVV's public shareholders to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. If you own BIVV shares and would like more information about your rights or our investigation, or if you have information to share with us, please contact Joshua Rubin by telephone at (888) 593-4771 or by email at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com .
WeissLaw LLP has litigated hundreds of stockholder class and derivative actions for violations of corporate and fiduciary duties. We have recovered over a billion dollars for defrauded clients and obtained important corporate governance relief in many of these cases. If you have information or would like legal advice concerning possible corporate wrongdoing (including insider trading, waste of corporate assets, accounting fraud, or materially misleading information), consumer fraud (including false advertising, defective products, or other deceptive business practices), or anti-trust violations, please email us at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com or fill out the form on our website, http://www.weisslawllp.com/bioverativ-inc/
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/weisslaw-llp-investigates-bioverativ-inc-acquisition-300587626.html
SOURCE WeissLaw LLP