NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Blank Rome LLP is pleased to announce that Scott E. Wortman has joined the Firm as a Partner in the Consumer Finance Litigation group in the New York office. At Blank Rome, Mr. Wortman will serve as a litigator and counselor to clients facing scrutiny under consumer financial protection statutes and regulations at both the federal and state level, including individual and class action defense, regulatory proceedings, and administrative investigations. He joins Blank Rome from Warshaw Burstein LLP.
“We are very excited to welcome Scott to Blank Rome,” said Alan J. Hoffman , the Firm’s Chairman and Managing Partner. “Scott’s experience covers a broad spectrum of federal matters related to consumer finance litigation and regulation, bringing valuable perspective to the Firm, particularly in this era of heightened enforcement. Additionally, Scott recognizes the implications of various state regulations placed on consumer financial services companies, and can advise them on everything from licensing rules to requirements set by state attorneys general, as well as codes, structures, and statutes regulating the lending industry.”
Mr. Wortman’s experience includes litigating and resolving numerous matters as related to the Truth in Lending Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, related consumer torts, associated state consumer protection laws, and administrative and regulatory actions.
“Blank Rome’s Consumer Financial Services Industry Team plays an integral role in the regulatory, compliance, litigation, bankruptcy, and government enforcement matters facing our clients,” said Wayne Streibich , Chair of Blank Rome’s Consumer Financial Services Industry Team and Consumer Finance Litigation group. “Scott’s understanding of where current litigation trends and the evolving regulatory structure are taking the consumer financial services market, coupled with his experience in class action, government enforcement, and individual actions, will further enhance and differentiate Blank Rome’s practice in the consumer lending and servicing sector. Scott’s skill set will assist Blank Rome in continuing to provide forward-looking business advantages for our clients.”
In addition to providing litigation counsel to his clients, Mr. Wortman helps financial services firms comply with privacy and data security laws, and assists with due diligence for financial services transactions. For example, on the technology side, law firms are now considered by many federal and state regulators to be vendors. The New York State Department of Financial Services (“DFS”) was the first agency to require that vendors of DFS-licensed financial services companies also comply with the cybersecurity rules set for those organizations. Mr. Wortman helps organizations, like law firms, come into compliance with those rules and regulations.
“It is truly an honor to join Blank Rome’s Consumer Finance Litigation practice group,” said Mr. Wortman. “Blank Rome has a view for the future and an interest in technology, particularly as it relates to emerging industries like cryptocurrency and FinTech, which is a perfect match for my practice. Furthermore, the Firm’s national presence is extremely important to my clients, many of whom are managing consumer finance regulations across the country. I look forward to starting the New Year at Blank Rome and working with all of my new colleagues across the Firm’s practices to strengthen relationships with our clients, and helping them create compliance solutions for changing regulatory frameworks.”
Aligned with Blank Rome’s significant commitment to pro bono and community investment, Mr. Wortman draws on his past experience as the executive director of the Center for Behavior Services, of which he now serves as vice chairman of the board of directors. In this role, Mr. Wortman’s work is dedicated to providing housing relief for individuals who were once incarcerated and are completing work release programs. Through Blank Rome’s pro bono program, Mr. Wortman will continue to make actionable impact in support of marginalized individuals in need of housing.
Mr. Wortman earned his J.D. from the New York Law School, and his B.A. from Queens College, City University of New York.
About Blank Rome LLP
Founded in 1946, Blank Rome is an Am Law 100 firm with 13 offices and over 600 attorneys throughout the United States and in Shanghai who represent businesses and organizations ranging from Fortune 500 companies to start-up entities around the globe. With a strong focus on the key industry sectors of energy, maritime and transportation, real estate, financial services, healthcare and life sciences, chemical, gaming, technology, and manufacturing, Blank Rome advises its clients on a full spectrum of legal matters involving litigation; M&A and securities; finance, business restructuring, and bankruptcy; cybersecurity and data privacy; environment and mass torts; government contracts; insurance coverage; intellectual property; labor and employment; international trade; matrimonial and family law; policy and political law; tax and benefits; and white collar defense and investigations. The Firm also represents pro bono clients in a wide variety of cases and matters. Blank Rome is annually ranked and recognized for its leading middle-market corporate, M&A, real estate, and finance practices, to name a few, and is internationally acclaimed for its global maritime practice and capabilities. For more information, please visit www.blankrome.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005495/en/
Blank Rome LLP
Kate Tavella, 215.988.6988
Tavella@BlankRome.com
Source: Blank Rome LLP