HOBOKEN, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Former ASD Healthcare President Neil Herson today joined the Octapharma USA executive management team as Senior Vice President of National Accounts and Market Access, bringing nearly 25 years of global pharmaceutical leadership to one of the largest human protein products manufacturers in the world.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006212/en/
Former ASD Healthcare President Neil Herson today joined the Octapharma USA executive management team as Senior Vice President of National Accounts and Market Access, bringing nearly 25 years of global pharmaceutical leadership to one of the largest human protein products manufacturers in the world. (Photo: Business Wire)
During more than two decades at the helm of ASD Healthcare, part of AmerisourceBergen (ABC), Herson led the company’s organic growth, driving division earnings from $1 million to a multibillion company, while delivering customer-focused results across all pharmaceutical marketplace segments. ASD Healthcare today is the largest distributor of blood derivatives, nephrology products and critical care specialty products across all classes of trade in the U.S.
“Neil Herson has become one of the most respected leaders in the specialty pharmaceutical industry and we could not be more pleased to have him join our leadership team,” said Octapharma USA President Flemming Nielsen. “Neil has not only produced extraordinary business success during his career, but is well known for his leadership in the patient communities that are so important to Octapharma. Neil also brings a great entrepreneurial spirit and vision to our team, which will be invaluable as we continue to grow.”
Herson is responsible for developing Octapharma’s national market access and accounts strategy. He also serves as an advisor to senior management in the U.S. on portfolio opportunities and development.
He has extensive experience developing novel initiatives for long-standing industry challenges. Herson pioneered the first radio frequency identification (RFID) enabled pharmaceutical inventory management system, currently deployed throughout U.S. and global health systems, patient homes, physician offices and clinical trial sites. He also is a nationally recognized expert on healthcare strategy, specialty pharmaceutical distribution and trends and patient advocacy programs.
Herson’s many Board and community leadership activities have included Profarma Specialty (Brazil), Profarma Holding Company, African Healthcare Network, Bridge of Life, and the Immune Deficiency Foundation. He earned a B.S. in Business and Law from the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
About the Octapharma Group
Headquartered in Lachen, Switzerland, Octapharma is one of the largest human protein products manufacturers in the world and has been committed to patient care and medical innovation since 1983. Its core business is the development and production of human proteins from human plasma and human cell lines. Octapharma employs approximately 7,100 people worldwide to support the treatment of patients in over 113 countries with products across the following therapeutic areas: Hematology (coagulation disorders), Immunotherapy (immune disorders) and Critical Care. The company’s American subsidiary, Octapharma USA, is located in Hoboken, N.J. Octapharma operates two state-of-the-art production sites licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), providing a high level of production flexibility. For more information, please visit www.octapharmausa.com .
OCTA-0180
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006212/en/
Yankee Public Relations
Fred Feiner, 908-425-4878
fred@yankeepr.com
Source: Octapharma USA