1 COMMENTS Some European investment banks are finally catching up with U.S. peers.
UBS UBS 0.20% will start a share buybacks worth 2 billion Swiss francs ($2 billion) over the next three years, becoming only the second major European banking group after HSBC to hand a big chunk of cash to shareholders this way since the crisis.
Shares in the Swiss bank, which was reporting its 2017 results , still lost value Monday despite the buyback plan because UBS’s plans for ordinary dividend growth of mid-to-high single-digit percentages each year, whereas analysts had expected 14% to 15% annual growth, according to FactSet.
Investors may be upset at expected dividends playing second fiddle to buybacks. They shouldn’t: The overall payout should now be larger than expected. The buyback plan alone, before further dividend growth, provides a greater total payout than the previous consensus forecasts for dividend growth would have paid.
UBS had more of a near-death experience than some European rivals during the crisis, but as a consequence was forced into a major restructuring straightaway, while rivals like Credit Suisse or Deutsche Bank attempted to get by with more limited business changes. As a result, UBS returned to health much more rapidly while those rivals are still dealing with questions about the size and scope of their businesses.
Related UBS Swings to Quarterly Loss After Hit From U.S. Tax Reform Heard: Banks Dodge a Bullet From Global Capital Fight UBS Chief Executive Sergio Ermotti Photo: leanza/EPA/Shutterstock The bank said clarity on the Basel global banking rules , which were completed at the end of last year, gave it a better view of how much capital it would now need to build over coming years. At the same time, the 2.9 billion Swiss francs of losses related to U.S. tax changes didn’t cut into its capital or dividend paying capacity because they mainly affect intangible, noncash assets on the balance sheet.
Like U.S. banks, who reported in the past two weeks, UBS saw weak activity in fixed-income trading, but stronger activity in equities. It also saw strong inflows into its wealth management businesses , although margins there were slightly weaker than expected.
Investors should be cheered by these results overall. Not only are they getting more money back than expected, but also the buyback plan leaves plenty leftover to address extra regulatory capital demands and growth in UBS’s business. UBS looks to be keeping its nose ahead of its rivals.
Write to Paul J. Davies at paul.davies@wsj.com