NEW YORK, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sadis & Goldberg has expanded its private equity, investment funds and corporate practices with the addition of partner Paul J. Marino. Mr. Marino advises national and multinational hedge funds, private equity funds and corporations, ranging from telecommunications to technology companies, as well as commercial real estate investors and investment advisers. Mr. Marino has considerable experience in the financial services industry, having organized and represented hedge funds, private equity funds and corporate entities in connection with various matters including corporate transactions and mergers and acquisitions.
"Sadis, like Marino Partners, focuses on superlative client service and excellent work product, and that quality, combined with the ability to offer our clients access to attorneys with more diversified experiences, was key to our decision to join the firm. It is without question that Sadis deservedly enjoys a highly-regarded reputation in the financial services industry and is comprised of thought leaders who are at the forefront of issues in the evolving financial services industry," Marino said.
Robert Cromwell, Counsel and Nick Federici, Associate will also be joining the firm. Mr. Cromwell's practice focuses on purchases, sales and recapitalizations of private companies, venture capital start-ups, private equity transactions, registered and unregistered investment companies (ETFs, private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds) and includes representing registered advisers and broker-dealers. Mr. Cromwell also advises clients on general corporate matters. Mr. Federici concentrates his practice on investment fund formation and related transactions including asset-backed and mezzanine financings, mergers and acquisitions, asset purchases and divestitures, as well as general corporate and securities matters.
Ron S. Geffner, Head of Financial Services, said, "We are excited and privileged to have Paul, Robert and Nick join our firm. Their collective experience and breadth of knowledge of investment funds and corporate transactions will help us continue to expand and adapt these practice areas to serve our clients in the constantly evolving financial market environment."
About Sadis & Goldberg LLP
Sadis & Goldberg LLP is one of New York's leading law firms. The financial services practice enjoys an international reputation, providing legal counsel to several hundred advisers, broker-dealers and commodity pool operators that sponsor, manage and advise hedge funds, private equity funds, venture capital funds and separately managed accounts. We also advise clients on tax, litigation, ERISA, regulatory and compliance and real estate issues. For additional information: www.sglawyers.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sadis--goldberg-expands-investment-funds-and-corporate-practices-300576493.html
SOURCE Sadis & Goldberg