NEW YORK, Jan. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Maru/Matchbox, a sector-focused consumer intelligence firm, is proud to announce Ted Chen has been appointed Managing Director, Financial Services.
“Ted Chen is the ideal person to helm our successful and growing Financial Services practice,” said Ged Parton, Maru Group CEO. “His management consulting background, coupled with his experience in retail banking, asset/investment management, insurance and healthcare, make him a perfect fit for a practice that is focused on driving improvement and change within clients,” said Parton.
“Having worked with Ted before, his passion for excellence and knowledge of analytics and the industry is an ideal fit for our clients,” said Maru/Matchbox Chief Operating Officer and former Managing Director, Financial Services Demitry Estrin. “Ted is an experienced leader who I have seen grow research practices through expanding business with existing clients and developing relationships with new client organizations. I am delighted to have him bring his leadership to our team of Financial Services experts.”
Ted has a great deal of experience in leveraging technology platforms and solutions to drive increased quality, efficiency and speed of market research programs and initiatives. He also has expertise in customer experience (CX) research. “In a world where bank customers are increasingly fickle and the market is ripe for change, Ted’s extensive experience in CX work is an invaluable asset for our clients,” said Estrin.
Chen is a highly skilled research practitioner with many years of experience. Prior to joining Maru Group, Ted enjoyed successful stints with Strategy& at PwC (formerly Booz & Company), Ipsos Loyalty, Vision Critical and, most recently, ORC International.
“The financial services sector in North America is entering a phase of significant disruption,” said Parton. “Ted is the perfect person to help our financial services clients thrive in today’s evolving environment.”
About Maru/Matchbox
Maru/Matchbox has been pushing the boundaries of the customer market insights space for over a decade. We are a sector-focused consumer intelligence firm focused entirely on better client outcomes. Our expert teams are deeply invested in key sectors of the economy, delivering insights and analysis backed by superior quality data. Our Springboard America community is one of the leading online market research communities in the U.S., giving Americans the opportunity to voice their opinions on a variety of topics and issues.
Contact: media@marumatchbox.com
Source:Maru Group Inc.