MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Redis Labs , the home of Redis and provider of Redis Enterprise , today announced that industry veteran Scott McNealy has joined the company's advisory board. McNealy, a Silicon Valley legend, served as co-founder and CEO of Sun Microsystems for more than 20 years, one of the longest tenures in industry history. He currently serves as the Chairman of Wayin , a social media startup McNealy founded.
"We're living in a time where customer experience means everything; your brand's survival is contingent on whether or not you can meet the expectations of your customer. Response time, reliability and scalability are critical technology underpinnings that determine whether or not your company will survive against the competition," said Scott McNealy, advisory board member of Redis Labs. "Redis Labs solves that problem, quite simply, while offering unprecedented flexibility to developers and support for a variety of applications. In fact, I see many similarities between what we created at Sun years ago – an open platform for the community – and what Redis Labs brings to the table. The company is in an incredible position for aggressive growth, and I'm honored to lend my support as we look towards an even brighter future ahead."
McNealy brings his unique expertise to Redis Labs. Under his leadership, Sun Microsystems released Java, still one of the most popular programming languages today, and a critical contribution to the open source community. As an advisor, McNealy will influence Redis Labs' strategy and help the company with its continued advancement of enterprise technology and customer adoption.
"Scott McNealy is well versed in Silicon Valley's technology cycles and brings valuable perspective on enterprise and open source software," said Ofer Bengal, CEO and co-founder at Redis Labs. "Redis Labs is poised to gain massive adoption as applications adapt to the computing shifts enabled by new memory technologies. We look forward to applying Scott's seasoned viewpoint to the mega trends that are shaping the next generation of applications."
About Redis Labs
Redis Labs , home of open source Redis , the world's fastest in-memory database platform, provides Redis Enterprise (Redis e ), as a cloud service and as downloadable software, to over 7,500 enterprise customers. The high performance, true high availability and seamless scaling of Redis e , are top-ranked by industry analysts, and power use cases such as high speed transactions, queuing, user session stores, and caching, in e-commerce, social, personalization, IoT, metering, fraud detection and other real-time applications. Redis, voted the most loved database , rated the #1 cloud database , #1 database on Docker , #1 NoSQL datastore , and fastest growing NoSQL database reduces application complexity, simplifies development, accelerates time to market and provides unprecedented flexibility to developers.
Media contacts
Sharon Thompson
Redis Labs
sharon.thompson@redislabs.com
(650) 483-7506
Melissa Roxas
Inner Circle Labs for Redis Labs
redislabs@innercirclelabs.com
(415) 684-9401
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/technology-pioneer-scott-mcnealy-joins-redis-labs-advisory-board-300580136.html
SOURCE Redis Labs