NEW YORK and DENVER, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Situs , the premier provider of strategic business and technology solutions to the real estate industry, today announced that it has closed the transaction to acquire MountainView Financial Solutions . Headquartered in Denver, CO, MountainView is an industry-leading valuation and risk analytics business for the financial services sector.
"We are pleased to welcome MountainView to the Situs family of companies. Alongside The Collingwood Group acquisition, this transaction represents a further step into the world of residential financial services and realizing our goal of being a full-spectrum service provider," said Steve Powel, CEO of Situs. "Situs' advisory practice, consulting services, analytics and research combined with MountainView's expertise in modeling and analytics, will provide our clients with a one-stop shop for asset risk management solutions that is unique in the market.
MountainView's professionals will work alongside Situs to deliver a wide array of risk management and transaction services, and build on the group's foundation of valuation and regulatory advisory services.
"With Situs as its parent and strategic partner, MountainView will be able to expand its current capabilities and offer clients a stronger, more dynamic analytics framework. As we embark on this exciting partnership, we anticipate bringing new opportunities to our existing clients and diversifying into additional markets," said MountainView CEO Michael Morgan.
ABOUT SITUS
Situs ( www.situs.com ) is a global provider of strategic business and technology solutions to the real estate industry. Situs has been involved in more than $1 trillion of real estate debt and equity deals across the U.S. Europe and Asia, and has acquired a number of platforms. In 2012, Situs acquired Deutsche Bank's European Servicing operations and became one of the largest third-party loan servicers in Europe; in 2016, Situs acquired Hatfield & Phillips, the largest non-performing loan and CMBS Special Servicer in Europe; and, in 2017, Situs acquired The Collingwood Group, a Washington, DC, advisory firm focused on residential housing finance. Situs is a rated servicer with Moody's, Fitch and Morningstar, has more than $165 billion (€137 billion) of assets under management and is ranked a top 20 commercial loan servicers in multiple categories by the Mortgage Bankers Association. In 2016, Situs received a second consecutive "Advisor of the Year" award from Real Estate Finance & Investment magazine, and the "Capital Advisor Firm of the Year" award from Property Investor Europe. In 2017, the firm won the "Industry Contributor of the Year" award from Real Estate Finance & Investment magazine.
ABOUT MOUNTAINVIEW FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS
MountainView Financial Solutions ( www.mviewfs.com ), a leading advisor to the financial services industry, delivers rigorous and objective analysis, data-driven insights and client-centric services that help business leaders Climb Higher™ by better identifying, quantifying and managing credit and interest rate risk exposure and optimizing balance sheet management. Fueled by deep industry knowledge and unparalleled access to valuable market and industry data, MountainView delivers a more holistic view of risk and opportunity that enables clients to make informed and confident decisions.
Specific services the company offers include financial model validations, asset valuations for residential whole loans, consumer loans, residential mortgage servicing rights (MSR) and asset-backed securities, MSR hedge advisory, core deposit analyses, stress testing, and asset sale transaction advisory.
Built upon nearly three decades of risk management experience, MountainView currently serves more than 600 active clients in banking, insurance, lending, servicing and secondary market and securitization.
SITUS MEDIA CONTACT
Cecilia Panozzo
188865@email4pr.com
+ 1 212 294 1304
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/situs-announces-completion-of-acquisition-of-mountainview-financial-solutions-300583574.html
SOURCE Situs