ATLANTA, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Randstad Technologies is pleased to announce key promotions within its U.S. executive team that will be critical to 2018 operations and market growth.
Alisia Genzler, with over 20 years of industry experience, has been appointed Randstad Technologies' president and chief client officer. Transitioning from her previous role as executive vice president for the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast regions, Genzler will oversee all sales teams, manage sales performance across strategic, major, key and emerging account segments and bring strategy to major and emerging client accounts. Additionally, she will focus on expanding the staffing, permanent and solutions portfolios at the client level.
"Alisia's competitive nature and relentless focus on sales excellence resulted in her leadership and executive management progression within Randstad Technologies," said Graig Paglieri, president of Randstad Technologies and Engineering. "She continues to deliver results that have directly contributed to our growth above market."
Andy Speer, with over 20 years of industry experience, has been appointed president and chief delivery officer at Randstad Technologies. Adding to his current role, president of technology solutions, Speer will oversee the strategy and execution of the company's delivery functions and operating rhythm.
"Andy's strategic vision and consistent achievement in both sales and delivery excellence will ensure industry-leading progression for Randstad Technologies," said Paglieri. "He has also provided a blueprint that ensures the company's delivery activities, tools and service offerings are the most client-centric."
To move the needle in strategy and enablement, Joel Leege and Martin Casado have been promoted to expanded leadership roles across Randstad Technologies, Randstad Engineering and Centralized Delivery. Leege will take on strategy as the executive vice president and chief strategy officer where he will lead the sales center of excellence and strategy team to maximize client and talent relationships. He will also be responsible for internal talent acquisition, training and innovation. As executive vice president and chief of staff, Casado will be responsible for revenue enablement strategy and execution of sales and business support activities. He will oversee planning, programs and operations, working with leadership teams across all Randstad lines of business and with external partners to meet strategic business objectives.
"Dating to its inception over 30 years ago, Randstad Technologies has continued to evolve in order to bring customized technology solutions to its customers," said Paglieri. "This talented executive group will play a critical part in providing the required leadership to build and execute the programs and initiatives that will allow for our continued evolution."
About Randstad Technologies
For more than 30 years, Randstad Technologies has been connecting top companies around the world to expert technology talent. Our deep industry expertise and broad range of full-service capabilities—recruitment, consulting, projects and outsourcing—enable organizations to be agile, productive and ahead in the field with our wide network of specialists and flexible solutions. Randstad Technologies was recognized with Inavero's 2017 Best of Staffing ® Talent Satisfaction Award, and for the fourth consecutive year, the company received Inavero's Best of Staffing ® Client Satisfaction Award. For more information, visit www.randstadtechnologies.com
About Randstad
Randstad North America is a wholly owned subsidiary of Randstad Holding nv, a € 20.7 billion global provider of HR services. Through its unique approach of delivering HR innovation with human interaction at the center, Randstad secures and manages a workforce of more than 100,000 people for thousands of clients each week. As a trusted partner in the post-digital world of talent, Randstad advances the careers and business success of our candidates and clients through a combination of the best of high-tech and high-touch processes.
Employing over 6,500 recruiting experts through approximately 1,100 offices and client-dedicated locations, Randstad North America provides outsourcing, staffing, consulting and workforce solutions within the areas of engineering, finance and accounting, healthcare, human resources, IT, legal, life sciences, manufacturing and logistics, office and administration and sales and marketing. Learn more at www.randstadusa.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/randstad-technologies-expands-executive-leadership-team-300582134.html
SOURCE Randstad Technologies