COLUMBIA, Md., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- IMPAQ has acquired the talent development firm Maher & Maher .
Maher & Maher is a world-class consulting firm providing business integration, change management, and leading-edge training solutions. For thirty years, the company has been advising governments and the private sector in effective strategies for addressing talent development needs.
This acquisition will allow IMPAQ to enhance workforce development programs by combining our evidence-based research and data analytics expertise with Maher & Maher's services. Together, IMPAQ and Maher & Maher will help our clients use resources more effectively and efficiently to significantly improve outcomes.
"Maher & Maher brings to IMPAQ skilled staff, deep domain expertise, and proven learning solutions," said IMPAQ CEO, Avi Benus. "Combining their technical assistance experience with our evidence-driven approach will result in highly efficient delivery of workforce development services and allow us to extend our reach further into the public and private sectors."
"This will enable us to significantly enhance workforce programs, bring new value in measuring outcomes for our clients, and impact more lives," said Richard D. "Rick" Maher, Maher & Maher's Principal. "IMPAQ offers us scalability and deeper resources, something I know both our clients and our employees are going to appreciate."
Maher & Maher will remain a wholly-owned subsidiary of IMPAQ, LLC, retaining their brand, employees, and client relationships. Rick Maher will serve as Vice President & General Manager and serve on IMPAQ's Advisory Board.
Prior to closing this acquisition, IMPAQ International, LLC changed its corporate structure, creating IMPAQ, LLC, a holding company that now owns both IMPAQ International and Maher & Maher.
About IMPAQ, LLC
IMPAQ, LLC evaluates and enhances the policies, programs, and products of public and private sector organizations. We drive value with innovative thinking and rigorous approaches that deliver meaningful insight and real world impact.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/impaq-acquires-talent-development-consulting-firm-maher--maher-300589582.html
SOURCE IMPAQ, LLC