0 COMMENTS Good morning. You might have been thinking fake news was a relatively new phenomenon, with bad actors taking advantage of the open nature of the internet and easy-to-use targeting tools to spread disinformation. Not so, according to media veteran…Pope Francis. The pontiff released on Wednesday the first papal document on the subject of fake news , which suggested the first instance of the phenomenon dates back to the Book of Genesis in the Old Testament, when the serpent in the Garden of Eden lied to persuade Eve to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
Totally Wired Fresh off a big windfall from the new tax law and in a media environment where everyone seems to be banding together to create scale, Comcast said it will continue to look at deal targets —but the bar is high. You’ll remember Comcast was among the suitors that approached 21st Century Fox about buying a substantial chunk of the business before Disney locked in the deal. The cable giant is feeling the impact of a highly competitive online video market, leading to the company losing 33,000 cable-TV customers in the fourth quarter, its third straight quarter of subscriber losses. TV advertising is getting stronger, though, according to NBCUniversal CEO Steve Burke, who thinks that might be related to business sentiment being more positive than it was six months ago. Mr. Burke has the tentpoles of the Winter Olympics and the “essentially sold out” Super Bowl coming up. His big hope, though, is for addressable TV. He said NBCUniversal sales chief, Linda Yaccarino, has “four, five” different products she’s currently selling to marketers that have aspects of interactivity or overlaying Comcast data with TV ads.
To Whit Meg Whitman’s departure from Hewlett Packard Enterprise was anticipated for months before she finally confirmed she was off in November. Ms. Whitman was even reportedly in the hot seat for the Uber CEO role. But Ms. Whitman’s next act will play out in Los Angeles, not Silicon Valley. The former eBay chief is joining Jeffrey Katzenberg’s media and tech venture WndrCo LLC as the first CEO of its portfolio company NewTV, the WSJ reports. The pair are old buddies, having worked with each other at Disney. The battle plan for NewTV is to build a service with high-budget, short-form mobile video content to target 18- to 34-year-old audiences. Mr. Katzenberg is hoping to add Hollywood sparkle to the often low-rent world of mobile video. It’s not yet been determined whether NewTV will get revenue from subscriptions or advertising, or both. But what is clear is that the startup now has in place a key, experienced operator to strike deals with distributors and marketers alike.
Welcome Matt CMO Today’s Alex Bruell scoops : Nick Brien recently joined ad holding company Dentsu Aegis as CEO of the Americas, and he’s wasting no time putting a new leadership team in place, starting with media agency veteran and former colleague Matt Seiler. Mr. Seiler joins the Japanese-owned holding company as president, brand solutions, a role in which he’ll help clients tap resources across the network’s capabilities, he said. “I’m here to work with [Nick] and ensure that our key clients get the most out of the Dentsu Aegis network,” he said. Dentsu Aegis houses a number of large agencies, including Carat, McGarryBowen, Merkle and 360i. Mr. Seiler is best known for his role atop IPG’s media agency operation, where he orchestrated a number of senior leadership and organizational changes at the group’s individual agencies, Initiative and UM. Mr. Seiler had succeeded Mr. Brien as CEO of IPG Mediabrands in 2011, after Mr. Brien left to run the IPG creative agency network McCann Worldgroup. After stepping down in 2015, Mr. Seiler joined a firm called Studio71.
No Fun, My Babe, No Fun Ask someone to describe ad agency life and they might reply with a laundry list of long hours, unreasonable client demands and the pressure that comes with squeezed fees. But while those issues can’t be overlooked, agency leaders have a responsibility to ensure their staffers have a little fun on the way. I was struck by New Breed Talent Army co-founder Mark Wnek’s Ad Age op-ed: “ When the Fun Ends, Your Agency Closely Follows .” Mr. Wnek said he decided to leave his last big agency job, where he says he was known for being a “mean, hard-driving boss,” after he burst into tears one morning over the way he had scolded his young sons for breaking an iPad screen. “Turning to the bathroom mirror, I flinched at the tense, haggard face that looked back at me. The face that my people at the agency were about to spend a tense, haggard day with,” Mr. Wnek writes. The advertising industry is a creative industry. An industry in which communications must charm consumers and make brands likable. That sounds like a lot of fun to me. It’s a feature, not a distraction, to carry out that work with a smile and not take it all too seriously. Cheer up!
Best of the rest BuzzFeed has overhauled the structure of its entertainment group, shifting the division’s president, Ze Frank, into the newly created role of chief research and development officer where his team will experiment with new video formats and emerging platforms. [ Hollywood Reporter ]
Facebook is launching a new privacy center to make it easier for users to manage their data, just in time for the release of Europe’s new General Data Protection Regulation. [ Reuters ]
The London Presidents Club Charity Dinner announced Wednesday it had disbanded after a Financial Times investigation alleged multiple hostesses were harassed and groped at the men-only fundraiser. Earlier that day, WPP, a longtime sponsor, ended its association with the event and said the company and its attendees weren’t aware of the alleged incidents. [ Ad Age ]
Wieden + Kennedy London has suddenly parted ways with Paul Colman, its chief strategy officer. In a statement, the agency said it doesn’t comment on internal matters, but said, “W+K does not tolerate harassment of any kind. If harassment or inappropriate conduct is reported a timely investigation is conducted, and if a violation is found to have occurred, appropriate corrective action is taken.” [ Ad Age ]
The New York Daily News is launching a paywall on Feb. 1. Readers without a print subscription will be able to read up to 10 free articles each month before they are asked to pay. [ Daily News ]
Snap’s vice president of product, Tom Conrad, is leaving the company at a pivotal moment as the app rolls out its redesign. [ TechCrunch ]
Internet-famous feline Grumpy Cat was awarded $710,001 in damages after a court found a coffee company breached the terms of a licensing agreement to use the moggy’s image on a line of iced coffees. The beverage company also went on to create a line of “Grumpy Cat Roasted Coffee,” which prompted Grumpy Cat Limited to file a copyright lawsuit because the additional product wasn’t in the original deal. [ Washington Post ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com