BOSTON, MA, Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ValueSetters Inc. (OTC Pink: VSTR) announced the acquisition of DreamFunded Marketplace, LLC, Silicon Valley and San Francisco Bay Area’s first regulated funding portal under Title III of the JOBS Act, which allowed non-accredited investors to invest in early-stage startup companies.
The DreamFunded.com’s membership base will be exclusive for accredited investors. Going forward, however, all of the Title III offerings will be available for ValueSetters to direct to Netcapital.com , a registered funding portal that assists startups that are seeking to raise up to $1,070,000 from non-accredited investors.
As part of this agreement, Manny Fernandez, the founder of the DreamFunded brand, will join the ValueSetters Board of Advisors. Manny Fernandez is a Stanford University educated angel investor, serial entrepreneur, and bestselling author featured on CNBC's Make Me A Millionaire Inventor. He has been successful investing in his own ideas as well as taking companies from startup to exit. Featured in The Wall Street Journal and on CNBC Squawk Box , he was also named one of the 33 Entrepreneurs to Watch in 2016 by Inc. Magazine . In addition, he was chosen as the 2014 San Francisco Angel Investor of the Year.
“We are pleased that someone of Manny Fernandez’s caliber has chosen to form a relationship with ValueSetters. With his expertise as a pioneer in the equity crowdfunding space, Manny will bring his vast experience and provide value to the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who are looking to raise money,” said Cecilia Lenk, CEO. “With Manny’s extensive network and strong reputation in the startup ecosystem and the investor community, we expect the acquisition to have a positive impact on revenues going forward.”
Terms of the acquisition have not been disclosed.
About ValueSetters: Led by a team of professional investors and technology specialists, ValueSetters is a publicly traded boutique advisory firm with unique expertise in helping early stage companies raise capital over the Internet. The company also provides technology consulting services as well as strategic advice to help companies grow and evolve to meet the challenges of today's marketplace. For more information, visit our website at http://valuesetters.com.
About DreamFunded Marketplace, LLC: DreamFunded Marketplace, LLC was the first Silicon Valley / San Francisco Bay Area FINRA and SEC registered funding portal under the JOBS Act. It withdrew its membership from FINRA and the SEC to focus on accredited investors only.
The information contained herein includes forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or to our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could, and likely will, materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Any forward-looking statement reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
ValueSetters Inc. Coreen Kraysler ckraysler@valuesetters.com
Source:ValueSetters, Inc.