New Vice President of R&D Will Support Continued Growth and Expansion for the Leading Service Assurance Solution Provider
PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Centina Systems , a leading provider in network performance management and strategic assurance solutions for communications service providers (CSPs) worldwide, announced today it has expanded its leadership team to help accommodate the company’s significant growth. This announcement comes on the heels of the company’s new Tier 1 wins and expansion into Europe news that was released in October.
Srinivasarao Channamsetti joins Centina as the new Vice President of R&D. His responsibilities include driving innovation and solutions delivery, as well as managing a rapidly growing team. Srinivasarao was formally a Vice President, Communications, Media and Technology at Accenture delivering digital solutions and has 25 years of experience in IT Delivery, Sales, and Relationship Management.
“I am very excited to join the Centina Systems team, and look forward to driving continued success for the company and customers,” said Srinivasarao Channamsetti. “This is an exciting time to be part of Centina as we continue to emphasize the importance of assurance as service providers virtualize and transform their businesses.”
Centina Systems helps global operators undergo business and technology transformations while improving productivity and customer service. Its flagship vSure™ service assurance solution helps service providers virtualize their networks, reduce operations costs, and provide more flexibility to their customers.
Centina helps CSPs prepare for the new digital world by providing operators the assurance that they can provide the same or better levels of customer satisfaction and network performance as they did with their legacy services.
“As we begin a new year, we are pleased to grow our team with such talented individuals as Srini,” said Anand Gonuguntla, Co-founder and CEO at Centina Systems. “Srini has tremendous experience serving Tier 1 CSPs. This enables us to continue to accelerate the growth and innovation of our business.”
Learn more about Centina Systems’ leading strategic assurance solution at www.centinasystems.com .
Centina Systems
Centina Systems is the market leader in service assurance analytics and network performance management solutions, partnering with operators globally as they undergo digital transformation. The company’s unrivaled domain expertise in assuring networks and services leveraging its flagship vSure™ product ensures that today’s service providers continue to provide outstanding customer experience while facing unprecedented change. To learn more how Centina Systems is assuring operators make the best decisions on the road to network virtualization, visit www.centinasystems.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005254/en/
Centina Systems
Gregg Hara, +1-469-298-0471 ext. 1515
gregg@centinasystems.com
or
SmartMark Communications, LLC for Centina Systems
Lyndsay Pocorobba, +1-215-504-4272
lyndsay@smartmarkusa.com
Source: Centina Systems