SANTA CLARA, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Echelon Corp., (NASDAQ: ELON), a leading independent control networking company for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), will announce results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2017 on Thursday, February 8, 2018 after market close.
Supplying investors with timely updates and supplemental information remains a priority for Echelon. The Company has elected to report its quarterly earnings results and commentary through its press releases and quarterly filings with the SEC. Echelon offers investors a variety of alternative modes of communication such as the 'Ask Ron' link on the Echelon website, social media channels, as well as the investor relations section of the website.
About Echelon Corporation
For 25 years Echelon (NASDAQ: ELON) has pioneered the development of open-standard networking platforms for connecting, monitoring and controlling devices in commercial and industrial applications. With more than 110 million devices installed worldwide, Echelon's proven, scalable solutions host a range of applications enabling customers to reduce energy and operational costs, improve safety and comfort, and create efficiencies through optimizing physical systems. Echelon focuses today on two IoT (Internet of Things) market areas: creating smart cities and smart enterprises through connected outdoor lighting systems, and enabling device makers to bring connected products to market faster via a range of IoT-optimized embedded systems. More information about Echelon can be found at www.echelon.com .
Echelon and the Echelon logo are trademarks of Echelon Corporation that may be registered in the United States and other countries.
Investor Relations Contact:
Annie Leschin
StreetSmart Investor Relations
+1 (415) 775-1788
annie@streetsmartir.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/echelon-reports-fourth-quarter-2017-earnings-release-date-300587837.html
SOURCE Echelon Corporation