MIAMI, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE-- Miami-based United Blockchain Corp a wholly owned subsidiary United American Corp ("UnitedCorp"), (OTC:UAMA) announced today that it has acquired a second data center facility in the West Island area of Montreal, Quebec Canada and will become an operation of it mining division as Blockchain Data Centers Inc.
The leased space which is fully built out with Company-owned equipment and facilities is currently in operation and ready to start hosting cryptographic token mining servers and has an estimated capacity of over 100 servers. The actual number of servers will be subject to air conditioning and ventilation performance under deployment.
This second data center transaction is a key component to the deployment of the company's upcoming Telephone Number Blockchain Transaction PSTN SIP-based network BlockNUM - as announced on December 22nd. BlockNUM is targeting to be at the forefront of most major cryptocurrency transactions which would occur in the network between phone numbers on a worldwide basis. UnitedCorp's cryptographically-based ledger blockchain mining data centers will act as gateway to all BlockNUM backend transactions which would be transferred to correspondent external cryptographically-based distributed ledger networks.
The company's underlying SIP-based transport tokens will be maintained within the PSTN networks. All tokens supported by BlockNUM will be required to be mined by nodes operated by United Blockchain in it is data centers for each of the cryptographic networks such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin and others.
BlockNUM is currently patent pending in the US and protected in countries which are members of the Patent Cooperation Treaty.
"We are very satisfied with the design and the performance achieved by the GPU mining rig assembled by our company, and are now in position to make further progress with the mining operations necessary for our upcoming mainstream peer-to-peer token transaction network" stated Benoit Laliberte, CEO of UnitedCorp.
About United American Corp
Established in 1992, United American Corp is a Florida-based development and management company focusing on telecommunications, social media and blockchain network technologies.
For more information, visit: www.unitedcorp.com
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of numerous factors that may be beyond the Company's control. Forward-looking statements are based on the expectations and opinions of the Company's management on the date the statements are made, and the Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements should circumstances in management's expectations or opinions change.
Source:
United American Corp
Contact:
Jenna Trevor-Deutsch
Investor Relations
investorrelations@unitedcorp.com
604 398 5000 ext: 109
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/35bededf-dff6-47b3-a26a-6d6f8f67a8e7
Source:United American Corp.