FREMONT, Calif., Jan. 2, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Aerkomm Inc. (OTCQX: AKOM), a publicly-traded holding company (the "Company," or "AKOM" or "Aerkomm") whose operating subsidiary, Aircom Pacific, Inc., is developing in-flight entertainment and connectivity, or IFEC, solutions, today announced that it has filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") to register up to $40,000,000 of shares of its common stock in a proposed firm commitment underwritten public offering. The lead underwriter for the proposed offering is Boustead Securities, LLC.
Aerkomm's common stock is currently Quote: d for trading on the OTCQX under the symbol "AKOM." Prior to the effective date of the registration statement relating to the prospectus, Aerkomm plans to file an application to have its common stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange's NYSE American segment, under the symbol "AKOM."
The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. A copy of the prospectus relating to this offering, when available, may be obtained from Boustead Securities, LLC at 6 Venture, Suite 325, Irvine, CA 92618, via telephone at +1 949 502 4409, or via email at offerings@boustead1828.com
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold, nor may offers to buy be accepted, prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
A copy of the Company's Form S-1 filing is available on the SEC's website at http://sec.gov .
About Aerkomm Inc.
Aerkomm Inc. is a development stage service provider of in-flight entertainment and connectivity with advanced technologies and a unique business model. As a development stage service provider of in-flight connectivity and entertainment, or IFEC, solutions, we intend to provide airline passengers with a broadband in-flight experience that encompasses a wide range of service options. Such options include Wi-Fi, cellular, movies, gaming, live TV, and music. We plan to offer our services through both built-in in-flight entertainment systems, such as a seat-back display, as well as on passengers' personal devices. We also expect to provide content management services and e-commerce solutions related to our IFEC solutions. We plan to partner with airlines and offer airline passengers free IFEC services. We intend to generate revenues through advertising and in-flight transactions. We believe our innovative approach differentiates us from existing market players. For more information about Aerkomm Inc., please visit www.aerkomm.com .
About Boustead Securities, LLC
Boustead Securities, LLC ("Boustead") is an investment banking firm that executes and advises on IPOs, mergers and acquisitions, capital raises and restructuring assignments in a wide array of industries, geographies and transactions, for a broad client base. Boustead's core value proposition is the ability to create opportunity through innovative solutions and tenacious execution. With experienced professionals in the United States and around the world, Boustead's team moves quickly and provides a broad spectrum of sophisticated financial advice and services. For more information, visit http://www.boustead1828.com/
Safe Harbor Statement
This release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of offers to buy any securities of any entity. This release contains certain forward-looking statements based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this release are based on information available to us as of the date hereof. Our actual results may differ materially from those stated or implied in such forward-looking statements, due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, which include the risk factors disclosed in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 20, 2017. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," and "would" or similar words. We assume no obligation to update the information included in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Boustead Securities, LLC Contact:
Dan McClory, Managing Director, Head of China, and Head of Equity Capital Markets
+1 (949) 502-4408
dan@boustead1828.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
Jeremy Roe, Managing Partner
Integra Consulting Group LLC
jeremy@integracg.net
+1 (925) 262-8305
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aerkomm-inc-announces-filing-of-s-1-registration-statement-300576154.html
SOURCE Aerkomm Inc.