Worldwide Express founder and Dallas entrepreneur included among DFW’s top influential business leaders
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Dallas entrepreneur and investor David Kiger was named one of the most powerful business leaders in the DFW area by D CEO, the award-winning business publication of D Magazine. The 2018 edition of the Dallas 500 issue features executives in more than 60 categories, highlighting the achievements of “the people who really run Dallas-Fort Worth business.”
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131006191/en/
David Kiger, founder and board member of Worldwide Express (Photo: Business Wire)
“Dallas has continued to evolve into an epicenter of business, technology and artistic opportunity,” said David Kiger, founder and board member of Worldwide Express. “I’m honored to hold company with some of the brightest and most influential business leaders in the country.”
In 1995, Kiger founded Worldwide Express , a global shipping logistics company for small to mid-size businesses. Headquartered in Dallas, the company now has more than 125 local offices across the country. It is one of two primary UPS authorized resellers in the United States, and currently has sales in excess of $1.3 billion. Kiger led the company’s private equity transactions in 2007, 2013 and 2017, and has guided Worldwide Express’ strategy and vision throughout its history of growth and success.
In addition to his leadership with Worldwide Express, Kiger is an investor in mobile Internet enhancement firm Alef Mobitech Inc., and is an advisor to Alef founder Dr. Ganesh Sundaram. Kiger is majority shareholder and board member of beGlammed.com , and is on the board of advisors of TEDx and XPRIZE.
Kiger graduated from the University of Alabama in 1985 and began his career with Baxter Healthcare in Chicago. While working for Trammell Crow Company in Houston, he developed the idea of what Worldwide Express would become, and he started the business with just $5,000.
Due to his successes over the course of his career, Kiger shares his valuable business lessons and actively encourages others, from entrepreneurs looking to start a small business, to CEOs leading successful companies.
“It takes passion, patience and determination to find success as an entrepreneur, but it also takes support from the community,” said Kiger. “I can attribute much of my good fortune to a supportive network of mentors and peers and relish in opportunities that allow me to pay it forward.”
About David Kiger
David Kiger, founder and board member of the global logistics company Worldwide Express , is a major investor and strategic advisor for a diverse portfolio of ventures, including Alef Mobitech and beGlammed . Kiger offers advice to entrepreneurs through his blogs on leadership and helping socially and economically disadvantaged businesses. Follow him on Twitter: @DavidKiger
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131006191/en/
Idea Grove
Farha Syed, 972-235-3439
fsyed@ideagrove.com
Source: Worldwide Express