Helping Small- and Medium-Size Businesses Reach Consumers and Expanding its Classified Network
LIVONIA, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Valassis , a leader in activating consumers through intelligent media delivery, announced that it has acquired Maryland Pennysaver, distributed via direct mail throughout Maryland, including the counties of Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Howard, Prince George’s, Charles, Calvert and St. Mary’s.
With numerous targeted editions distributed to over 247,000 households weekly, Maryland Pennysaver is the latest addition to Valassis’ growing portfolio of local offerings. Valassis has continued to build its presence in local markets across the country since it acquired Clipper and Printed Deals in late 2015.
“Bringing Maryland Pennysaver into the Valassis fold strengthens our position in the market, allowing us to help more small- and medium-size businesses extend print and digital savings to consumers,” said Wayne Powers, President, Valassis. “It also builds upon our localized automotive and classified networks. We are excited to welcome Maryland Pennysaver to the Valassis family.”
“Maryland Pennysaver affords us a great opportunity to expand our advertiser relationships throughout Maryland,” said Steve Hauber, President, Valassis Local Solutions . “Our strong suite of local ad solutions and expertise in developing integrated campaigns delivered across channels, gives merchants the ability to effectively reach and engage with consumers.”
To learn more about how Valassis is helping brands drive hyper-local marketing results, visit its website .
About Valassis
Valassis helps thousands of local and national brands tap the potential of industry-leading data through intelligent media delivery – understanding, engaging and inspiring millions of consumers to action with smarter cross-channel campaigns. We’ve been a part of consumers’ lives for decades, introducing new ways to deliver offers and messages that activate them — whether via mail, digital, in-store or the newspaper. NCH Marketing Services, Inc. and Clipper Magazine are Valassis subsidiaries, and RedPlum ® is its consumer brand. Its signature Have You Seen Me? ® program delivers hope to missing children and their families. Valassis and RetailMeNot are wholly owned subsidiaries of Harland Clarke Holdings .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006012/en/
Valassis
Mary Broaddus, 734-591-7375
broaddusm@valassis.com
Source: Valassis