MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- A-TEK, Inc. announced today it has welcomed Bobbie Peterson, PMP®, CPHIMS , a growth leader with over 20 years of diverse experience in business development, service delivery and project management to her leadership position with A-TEK.
"Ms. Peterson joins our team during a very exciting and pivotal time of strategic corporate growth and expansion," said Kathryn Freeland, A-TEK’s Chief Executive Officer. "Her industry credentials, coupled with her detailed understanding of emerging IT trends across an ever-evolving federal landscape will allow us to better align with the strategic goals and objectives of our customers."
Ms. Peterson has held key roles in both small and large organizations, having the responsibility of leading teams in developing new business opportunities in the areas of federal health IT and biomedical research. As an executive with several highly successful Federal Health consulting and technology providers, both large and small, she has lead teams in achieving contract awards of more than one billion dollars during the past two decades in support of federal agencies including Health and Human Services and Veterans Affairs. Ms. Peterson will work with A-TEK’s leadership team to leverage the company’s past performance and domain expertise in both science and technology. Ms. Peterson's continued commitment to advancing IT includes participation in Health Information Management and Systems Society (HIMSS), ACT-IAC and AFCEA, where she leverages best practice knowledge gained from these industry professional organizations.
Ms. Peterson holds a BS degree in Biology and a MS in Information Systems Technology Management from George Washington University and is recognized as both a certified Project Management Professional (PMP®) and a Certified Professional in Healthcare and Information Management Systems. She will be based in A-TEK’s McLean, Virginia office.
Headquartered in McLean, VA, A-TEK is comprised of a team of experts in managing the data that drives federal missions. A woman-owned small business with 16 locations nationwide, we’re a 21-year partner to U.S. government agencies including the NIH National Library of Medicine, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice, and the Department of Commerce. We deliver science and IT services and solutions across a myriad of government mission areas including public health, law enforcement, national security, environmental, and scientific missions.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005079/en/
A-TEK, Inc.
Cynthia English, 703-443-6900
Media Relations
cenglish@atekinc.com
Source: A-TEK,Inc.