CNBC Transcript: Hadley Gamble's interview with Suhail al-Mazrouei, UAE Energy and Industry Minister & OPEC President at the 9th Gulf Intelligence UAE Energy Forum
HG: Morning everyone and welcome. I'd like to say thank you to the UAE and to Gulf Intelligence as well for having me - we're thrilled to be here. And we're going to be talking about keeping OPEC and non-OPEC countries on track for 2018 and beyond. And the man who's charged with doing that, at least for this year, is his Excellency, Suhail Al Mazroui - welcome.
Your Excellency, you've just assume the presidency of OPEC, congratulations.
SAM: Thank you.
HG: Let's get into it, in terms of oil prices trading at higher range and we've got a lot of optimism surrounding the supply restraint. Are we at the point where OPEC can basically declare a mission accomplished? - At least when it comes to the restraint in terms of supply and in terms of it's time now to really start talking about an exit strategy?
SAM: No, I think first of all OPEC is committed to what they have decided when we meet in November which to continue with this deal for a full year. So we need not to forget that this is the agreement; this is the base of the agreement. And, there is of course, a positive market sentiment that we are seeing today, and it's expected. As we hear from the previous questions and reviews, the market is balancing and this is what we have been saying - the issue was the timing and how long it will take. And the way we look at it is, we should not look at a quarter or just a month to assume the full price of the year. You remember last year we started the quarter with a strong pricing. And then toward the middle of the year, everyone was kind of disappointed from where we started (to) where we are.
I think there is cyclic events that happens every year on the demand side, and they affect the market. We need to take into consideration that we are in the winter, and typically in the winter the demand is higher. You go to the second quarter you see some softening, you see some refineries goes to maintenance and you see as well, demand changes during the year. So, the cyclic event of the supply and demand is something that we live every year.
There is a reason that OPEC meets twice a year. And this group, the good thing that this group is staying together. The compliance level is what's important to me. And as we have seen it in November, where the prices were actually high compared to where they were in the previous times of the year, where the compliance was not on the 100% level, we achieved 122% together.
And, I am confident of the commitment of all of the countries attending. And something interesting happened, that not only the countries that signed for the agreement attended when we met in November, some observers attended as well. Which means that there is a dynamic of joining the clan. And that's, I think, what's important, is to see that this group have started something that never expected before. And this group has been complying at a very difficult time. So they've got to know each other and they're complying very well. And my expectation is that this compliance will continue very strong for the full year.
And I have no doubt that the market needs further correction. We're still need not to forget that we still have more than 100 million barrels from the five years average, that needs to be taken care of. And the market fundamentals in 2017 has been good but we are looking forward to see another healthy year of production in 2018.
HG: Give us a little preview of what happens in June now. Because one of the questions just a few moments ago was, is there a price point at which point this agreement might be something that needs to evolve and change.
SAM: No, I don't think it's about price. The concern is to achieve that balance between supply and demand.
HG: And we're not there yet.
SAM: We're not there yet because there is a 100, as we said, there's more than 100 million barrels to be removed if we believe that the five years average is a good point for us to have as a reference. And if that is true then we still have some room for improvement to achieve that level.
And when we achieve that level then there is the other question, which is do we have enough investments which the previous two gentlemen addressed.
Do we have enough investments coming to the market to bring the new oil that the demand is, or the world is needing, in terms of demand the growth. Everyone, if you remember last year, was expecting 1/1.2 point to demand. But, we ended up with at least 1.5, and we ended the year with the demand level of almost 2.
So this means that whatever forecast you have and you put, it's not necessarily that the world is going to meet it. The expectation for next year, in terms of for the world economy growth is strong at least. It's at least what we had in 2017, if not stronger. So if we have that, which means that we will have a strong demand then the expectation is to have new investments coming to the market.
But there are good news actually. ADNOC have announced a 109 almost billion dollars investment in the next four years throughout the value chain. And Saudi Aramco have announced, I think a similar level, in the next three years. So NOCs, I think IOCs with time, they will come to put more investments. And that's what we targeted. If you remember in our previous interview, I told you that we need to incentivize investors to come and invest in the market. And I think that the pace of that would trigger a correction of taking care of the risk of the supply and demand imbalance. If we achieve that level, then we will not have shocks to the world economies of very high prices and very low prices.
You asked me about 2017 - on average it's a good year. But we have seen $40 and we have seen almost $70 within the same year. For policymakers, for people who are looking at budgeting for a country - that is not a healthy fluctuation.
So the lower the fluctuation, and the more expectation we have, I think we can plan better for our economies. And when we can achieve a less need for deals like this.
HG: When you look at the price today heading towards seventy dollars per barrel, are speculators behind that, do you think? Or is this something that's sustainable?
SAM: I think less now we are moving to an environment where less speculation, less geopolitics, and more of market fundamentals. As we mentioned, the world economic growth was higher than expected. The demand was higher than expected. The compliance level, again every year - and I'm kind of disappointed to see the results that people are still not trusting us with an average. We started this at a very difficult year and we achieved an average compliance of 100%. And we're still not seeing the trust that this compliance is going to stay. I think we're gonna surprise you positively, to see a higher compliance level moving ahead.
So I think it's more, it's getting to shape as we correct the market, to become market fundamentals oriented expectations, rather than speculations.
HG: You mentioned some shocks and I want to ask you about a CITI report that came out a couple of days ago. They talked about potential wildcards; like war, tensions in the Middle East and uncertain administ