Adds Director of Business Development
BOCA RATON, FL, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- TLD3 Entertainment Group, Inc. (OTC: TLDE) (the “Company”), is pleased to announce it has added President of Digital Legend, a developer of leading edge wireless audio streaming devices and software, as Director of Business Development.
The Company adds Digital Legend President Gerald Baugh Director of Business Development.
Previously announced, TLD3 had entered into a LOI with Digital Legend ( www.digitalegends.com ) to explore a possible acquisition of Digital Legend’s MBox – a wireless mobile audio streaming technology that provides 10x the sound quality at 30% of the cost of its nearest competitors like, JVC, Sony and Beats. Since entering the LOI Digital has matured in its product development and will release its first consumer electric mobile audio streaming products in 1 st QTR 2018. With the progress Digital has made and the completion of due diligence, the companies agreed to an acquisition of Digital and have completed the initial phase of the closing.
About TLD3 Entertainment Group, Inc .
The Company develops and buys business opportunities and is currently working with electronic audio enhancement technology. As well the Company is developing Ovation Music & Studios as a music school that creates live performance bands, with a rehearsal & recording studio and sound stage as a franchise opportunity.
About Digital Legend Technology, Inc.
Digital Legend designs and markets signature digital platforms for music, entertainment and social media markets. Digital Legend is USA based design and Engineering Company with manufacturing and development assets in China and Hong Kong through its partner Mbox Electronic Technology Ltd. The Company currently has 4 products for commercialization, 1) Cloud Mountain Music sharing with bitcoin payment platform. 2) Mbox Wi-Fi music streaming player and 3) Bablr Mobile social media integration app 4): Aristotle mini mobile programmable computer.
The Wireless audio streaming market is estimated to grow to $33 billion a year by 2023.The online music streaming markets has surpassed $10 billion annually. Music discovery apps like Shazam have surpassed over $1 billion downloads and $1 billion in valuation. Digital legend’s initial products are powerful entrants in the wireless audio streaming, online music streaming and music discovery markets. Additionally the Cloudmountain app could revolutionize online payments for artist producers and consumers. Digital Legend is uniquely positioned for growth in the newly emerging streaming entertainment markets.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release may contain statements that are "forward-looking statements". Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "estimate", "project", "intend", "forecast", "anticipate", "plan", "planning", "expect", "believe", "will likely", "should", "could", "would", "may" or words or expressions of similar meaning. These statements are based on current estimates and projections about the Company’s business, which are derived in part on assumptions of its management, and are not guarantees of future performance, as such performance is difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements due to numerous factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the Company's limited operating history, ability to execute effectively its business plan, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantage, the Company's, the limited financial resources, and conditions of equity markets. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. No information in this press release should be construed as an indication of the Company’s future revenues or financial results.
TLD3 Entertainment Group, Inc. 561-487-0451
Source:TLD3 Entertainment Group, Inc.