LAKE FOREST, Calif., Crummack Huseby Property Management , a privately-owned property management company in Southern California, is proud to announce the hire of Lesley Millender-Irwin. As Crummack Huseby's General Manager of The Travata Club at Travata, developed by CalAtlantic Homes. Millender-Irwin will bring her 17+ years in the industry to create and facilitate the operations and events supporting 243 luxury homes for Irvine's only age-exclusive, new home, gated community designed for residents 55+ years old. It features a 65-foot saltwater lap pool and cascading spa, bocce and pickle ball courts, outdoor yoga, dog park, outdoor bar, fire pit, lounge and luxurious sitting areas.
Millender-Irwin comes to Crummack Huseby with a varied and indispensable skill set as a General Manager with an expertise in associations that have mixed use, large scale, independent senior living, and luxury high rise-communities.
During her extensive career, she was awarded a $10,000 Starbucks Foundation Literacy Grant to create an intergenerational literacy and mentorship program for senior residents at an independent senior living community she managed. The program Millender-Irwin created organically benefitted that neighborhood by partnering a local school with senior adults, forging new friendships and instilling a love of reading for everyone involved. "It's that kind of creative thinking that solidifies our trust in Lesley to bring her unique talents to Travata's social atmosphere with her personal touch and customized ideas," says Margo Crummack, Co-Founder and CEO/Principal of Crummack Huseby.
Millender-Irwin has already begun her new role as onsite General Manager at The Travata Club in order to bring their residents the invaluable service they deserve and expect from Crummack Huseby. "Margo Crummack and Sandy Huseby share my passion and principles. Their current and future vision for Crummack Huseby is beyond exciting and I am all in." In her new role, Millender-Irwin will work closely with Travata residents to deliver the very best service experience for them every day.
About CRUMMACK HUSEBY
Crummack Huseby Property Management was awarded " Best Places to Work " three years in a row by the Orange County Business Journal and Best Companies Group. They have added value to communities throughout Southern California by working with HOAs, homebuilders, and land developers through their collaborative and customized approach. Their personalized philosophy to community management has allowed them to successfully discover and develop one-of-a-kind programs for new and existing communities. Learn More www.ch-pm.com
About TRAVATA
Travata is a masterfully planned community within the Villages of Irvine, developed by CalAtlantic Homes. Its timeless design and quality craftsmanship is consistent with its long-term view and pride of ownership.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crummack-huseby-hires-lesley-millender-irwin-for-general-manager-of-the-travata-club-300578321.html
SOURCE Crummack Huseby Property Management, Inc.