Lavinson will oversee Pepco Holdings stakeholder relations and issues management programs
WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pepco Holdings announced today the appointment of Melissa Lavinson as the company’s new Senior Vice President for Government and External Affairs. She replaces Ken Parker, who retired in December after 31 years of service at Pepco Holdings and Atlantic City Electric.
In her role, Melissa will serve as the point person for designing and implementing Pepco Holdings’ stakeholder relations and issues management programs. She will also be responsible for building, strengthening, and deepening ties with state and local officials, community leaders, business, consumer, and non-profit groups across the District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, and New Jersey.
“Melissa’s experience in the energy space and in government relations will prove a tremendous asset to our company as we drive toward excellence in every facet of our business,” said Dave Velazquez, President and CEO, Pepco Holdings. “Her insights will be a valuable resource as we keep working to forge and sustain strong relationships with key leaders in our region, in the public and private sectors, and in the diverse communities where we live and work.”
Melissa, a resident of the District of Columbia, comes to Pepco Holdings from PG&E, where she most recently served as Vice President of Federal Affairs and Chief Sustainability Officer. In that position, she led PG&E’s federal affairs office, where she engaged Congress and the administration on a host of energy, tax, and environmental policy issues. She was also responsible for developing and implementing PG&E’s company-wide sustainability strategy and climate change initiatives, as well as establishing connections at the national, state and local level with NGOs, trade associations, advocacy organizations, and other key groups.
Previously, Melissa was a Senior Associate as MRW and Associates, a consulting firm providing financial, economic, environmental and market analysis to energy suppliers, power producers, utilities, and more. She serves on the boards of the Alliance to Save Energy, Climate Action Reserve, the Women's Energy Resource Council, the China-U.S. Energy Efficiency Alliance, and She Should Run, which promotes women's representation in public office.
Melissa will assume her duties at Pepco Holdings effective Jan. 22, 2018.
# # #
The Pepco Holdings utilities Atlantic City Electric, Delmarva Power and Pepco, owned by Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC), provide safe and reliable energy to nearly 1.9 million electric delivery customers in Maryland, the District of Columbia, Delaware and New Jersey and approximately 130,000 natural gas delivery customers in northern Delaware.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005826/en/
Pepco Holdings
Media Relations
Ben Armstrong
609-625-5868 (office)
202-872-2680 (media hotline)
Source: Pepco Holdings