SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- G2 Insurance Services added an Employee Benefits insurance platform to complement its existing Property and Casualty insurance and Risk Management consulting services. Mignon Strong was hired as Assistant Vice President to introduce the company’s Employee Benefits offerings to all of its commercial clients and to expand G2’s Employee Benefits sales and service teams.
“The addition of an Employee Benefits platform means that each of our clients will be provided with a seamless risk management experience that will be second to none,” said Mark Ruggles, CEO. “Mignon Strong’s depth of service and operations experience will provide a solid foundation as we grow our Employee Benefits team and develop our unique offerings. This is a very exciting advancement for our clients and for our associates.”
Prior to joining G2 Insurance Services, Mignon was a Senior Account Executive at Precept Insurance Solutions where she managed Employee Benefits solutions for large and small employer groups. Prior to joining Precept, she had similar roles at Alliant Insurance Services and Acordia/Wells Fargo Insurance Services. Mignon is a Bay Area native.
“Joining G2 is an opportunity to create a truly special experience for clients,” said Mignon. “G2’s team is known for their passion for long-term client relationships as well as truly caring for the community and I wanted to be part of that culture. I can’t wait to build an Employee Benefits team that understands what a unique opportunity it is to create a new paradigm of service.”
Mignon is located in G2 Insurance Services’ San Francisco office. She can be reached at 415-426-6652 and mstrong@G2insurance.com .
About G2 Insurance Services
Founded in 2012 and located in San Francisco, G2 Insurance Services is an independent, full-service property, casualty and employee benefits insurance brokerage firm focused on the risk management needs of for-profit companies, non-profit organizations and high-net-worth individuals. More information can be found at G2insurance.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005896/en/
G2 Insurance Services
Todd McCormack, 415-426-6609
Sales & Marketing Manager
tmccormack@G2insurance.com
Source: G2 Insurance Services