OCEAN CITY, Md., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Real Hospitality Group is pleased to announce the addition of several key leadership roles. James Zito, Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing, Dana English, as Vice President of Owner Support and Development, Jeannine Graham as Regional Director of Sales & Marketing for the Independent Collection, Will Speidel as Regional Director of Sales & Marketing, and Dave Ditto, Regional Director of Operations, Southern US.
"As we continue to expand our portfolio, and maintain our 'Best in Class' reputation, I am thrilled to welcome this distinguished group of hospitality professionals to the Real Hospitality Group family," said Ben Seidel, President and CEO of Real Hospitality Group.
James "Jim" Zito, Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing
Drawing on more than 25 years of hospitality Marketing, Sales & Technology leadership experience Jim leads Marketing, Sales & Revenue team for the portfolio. Prior to joining RHG he held leadership roles with Chelsea Hotels and Morgans Hotel Group.
Jim has held numerous industry designations and serves on several industry boards including: Hospitality Sales and Marketing International (HSMAI) Digital Marketing Council where he is a founding member, an Adrian Awards Platinum Judge, and a participant of the Hotel Management Company Executive RoundTable. He is a regular speaker at national industry events.
Dana English CPA, PMP, Vice President, Owner Support and Development
Dana has over 20 years of experience servicing the hospitality industry. She joins RHG having been with top ranked national CPA firm, CohnReznick where she was responsible for creating and growing the firm's Hospitality Consulting Practice. Previous to this tenure, Dana served as the Chief Financial Officer of two nationally recognized, hotel operating companies.
She earned her certifications from Cornell University in Hotel Asset Management and Investment, served as president for the Washington DC chapter of Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals, has published several whitepapers, and moderated industry think tank panels and is a regularly featured speaker at national hospitality forums.
Jeannine Graham, Regional Director of Sales & Marketing – Luxury Portfolio
With over 20 years of extensive luxury hotel experience, Jeannine oversees the Sales & Marketing discipline for Real Hospitality Group's robust independent/boutique hotel portfolio. Previously with Jumeirah Hotels, Peninsula Beverly Hills & New York and Hotel Bel-Air, Jeannine brings a strong luxury-lifestyle background to the organization.
William "Will" Speidel, Regional Director Sales & Marketing
Will joins RHG having worked for multiple "Top 10" hotel operating companies in various corporate level roles including Vice President of Sales. Will is a noted turnaround specialist with extensive results based on experience in repositioning hotels, owner relations, and developing innovative sales and marketing programs to maximize top line revenue performance. Will has experience in nearly all markets throughout both the East Coast and Midwest.
Dave Ditto, Regional Director of Operations
Dave is a hotel operations leader that has held senior operations positions with Hilton Hotels Corporation as well as top independent management companies. Dave's passion is the southeast U.S. market where he has over 30 years' experience.
Dave is passionate about promoting excellence in Hospitality with students at various local colleges and universities. He serves regularly as a guest speaker at the Rosen School of Hospitality UCF, is a mentor for students at Kent State University's Business Club, and has counseled students at Florida International University looking to enter Hospitality in various fields.
About Real Hospitality Group
Ocean City, Maryland-based Real Hospitality Group ( RHG ), with offices in New York City, Washington DC & Miami, is a full-service hotel management company. Real Hospitality Group has grown to become one of the top 15 U.S. hotel management companies in less than seven years. RHG portfolio includes over 80 hotels open and in development in key markets and resort destinations.
The company is a recognized service provider for leading brands including Marriott International, Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Hyatt Hotels Corporation, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC,
Choice Hotels International, Inc., Wyndham Hotels and Resorts and Red Lion Hotels Corporation as well as a growing portfolio of independent luxury boutique hotels including MADE in New York City and Ruschmeyers in Montauk, NY. RHG focuses on comprehensive development management services, revenue performance, guest experience and business development for hotels, resorts and investment ownership groups. For more information about Real Hospitality, please visit realhospitalitygroup.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/real-hospitality-group-announces-appointment-of-key-leadership-roles-300580049.html
SOURCE Real Hospitality Group