STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Eagle Bulk Shipping, Inc. (Nasdaq:EGLE) (the “Company”), one of the world’s largest owner-operators in the Supramax/Ultramax segment, today announced that it has taken delivery of its newly acquired vessel, the M/V New London Eagle, a 2015-built CROWN-63 Ultramax.
The acquisition has been funded by cash on-hand and new debt of USD 8.6 million. This loan, which equates to approximately 40% of the purchase price, represents an upsize to the existing Eagle Bulk Ultraco LLC Debt Facility which carries an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.95% and has a maturity of October 31, 2022.
With the addition of the M/V New London Eagle, the Company’s fleet is now comprised of 47 vessels, including 12 Ultramaxes acquired over the last 14 months.
About Eagle Bulk Shipping
Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. is a Marshall Islands corporation headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. Eagle Bulk owns one of the largest fleets of Supramax/Ultramax dry bulk vessels in the world. Supramax/Ultramax vessels, which are constructed with on-board cranes, range in size from approximately 50,000 to 65,000 dwt. The Company transports a broad range of major and minor bulk cargoes, including but not limited to coal, grain, ore, pet coke, cement and fertilizer, along worldwide shipping routes.
Forward-Looking Statements
Matters discussed in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and observations with respect to future events and financial performance. Where the Company expresses an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, the Company's forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected, or implied by those forward-looking statements. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including changes in the Company’s financial resources and operational capabilities and as a result of certain other factors listed from time to time in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
Company Contact
Frank De Costanzo
Chief Financial Officer
Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.
Tel. +1 203-276-8100
Email: investor@eagleships.com
Media Contact
Jonathan Morgan or Alex Hinson
Perry Street Communications
212-741-0014
eagle@perryst.com
Source:Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.