LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced the promotion of Bill Concannon to the position of Global Group President.
Mr. Concannon, who leads CBRE’s occupier outsourcing business (called Global Workplace Solutions), is one of three senior CBRE executives with the Global Group President title. This designation is reserved for CBRE’s most senior leaders with global, market-facing responsibilities. It reflects outstanding leadership within their areas of responsibility, and significant contributions to the company’s success – and the success of its clients – across the entire enterprise.
“Bill has made exceptional, ongoing contributions to our company over three decades,” said Bob Sulentic, CBRE’s president and chief executive officer. “He pioneered the occupier outsourcing concept in our sector in the early 1990s. Through a passionate commitment to excellence, leadership by example and strategic thinking, he has built our Global Workplace Solutions offering into a $6.4 billion revenue business – one that is known for generating exceptional results for our clients.”
The other senior CBRE executives with the Global Group President title are Cal Frese and Mike Lafitte, who share responsibility with Mr. Concannon for all of CBRE’s geographic and services business line operations.
About CBRE Group, Inc.
CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE: CBG), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm (based on 2016 revenue). The company has more than 75,000 employees (excluding affiliates), and serves real estate investors and occupiers through approximately 450 offices (excluding affiliates) worldwide. CBRE offers a broad range of integrated services, including facilities, transaction and project management; property management; investment management; appraisal and valuation; property leasing; strategic consulting; property sales; mortgage services and development services. Please visit our website at www.cbre.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005916/en/
CBRE Group, Inc.
Robert McGrath
Media Relations
212.984.8267
robert.mcgrath@cbre.com
or
Brad Burke
Investor Relations
215-921-7436
brad.burke@cbre.com
Source: CBRE Group, Inc.