CARROLLTON, Texas, - Truco Enterprises announced today that it appointed Lisa Walsh as the company's Chief Executive Officer effective January 3, 2018. Walsh joins Truco with more than 25 years of consumer packaged goods experience, particularly in the food and beverage space. As Truco's new CEO, Walsh's top priorities will be expansion of distribution of the On The Border brand and acceleration of the company's growth.
David Lowe, Chairman of the Board of Truco, said, "Lisa is a proven leader with exceptional business skills, a deep knowledge of consumer and shopper insights, and strong general management expertise. With On the Border currently the fastest growing and highest velocity tortilla chip brand, the Board is confident that Lisa can leverage her skillset to take the company to the next level. Her commitment to leading and supporting high-performing teams is a key component of her success and will serve Truco well. We look forward to this next exciting chapter under her direction."
Walsh most recently served as the Senior Vice President of PepsiCo Sales where she led the global strategy for one of PepsiCo's largest customers. She was responsible for a portfolio that included Frito-Lay, Quaker Foods and all of PepsiCo's beverage businesses. Over the course of her 18 years at PepsiCo she held a variety of roles in general management, sales, strategy, category management and industry engagement. She is a proven people leader, championing gender equality across the industry through her involvement with Network of Executive Women as well as spearheading various diversity and inclusion initiatives within PepsiCo during her tenure with the company.
"I am thrilled and honored to be joining Truco and look forward to working closely with our Board and the incredibly talented Truco team. The On The Border brand has tremendous momentum right now, driven by a commitment to authentic, flavorful products that consumers love," said Walsh. "I'm confident our guiding values, innovative mindset and passion for the business and its products will enable us to accelerate growth, continue to delight consumers, and deliver exceptional value to our retail partners."
Walsh currently serves as the Board Chair for the Network of Executive Women. She received a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology from Lafayette College.
About Truco Enterprises
Founded in Dallas, TX in 1991, Truco is a leading developer and marketer of tortilla chips, salsa and queso under the On The Border® brand. The Company's products are sold nationally through grocery retailers, club stores, mass merchandisers and convenience stores. Truco Enterprises is the exclusive licensee of the On The Border brand for food products sold through retail. For more information, please visit http://www.ontheborderproducts.com . Truco Enterprises is a portfolio company of Insignia Capital Group. In addition to Truco Enterprises, Insignia's portfolio companies also include Century Snacks, a provider of branded and private label snack nuts, trail mixes and similar snacks, and Tillamook Country Smoker, a provider of jerky, meat sticks and other meat snack products. For more information, please visit http://www.insigniacap.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/truco-enterprises-announces-appointment-of-lisa-walsh-as-chief-executive-officer-300580473.html
SOURCE Truco Enterprises