SAN DIEGO, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Realty Income Corporation (Realty Income, NYSE: O), The Monthly Dividend Company ® , today announced Benjamin N. Fox has been promoted to Executive Vice President, Portfolio & Asset Management from his prior role as Senior Vice President, Portfolio & Asset Management, effective January 1, 2018. In his new role, Mr. Fox remains responsible for the execution of the company's real estate portfolio strategy, now overseeing all leasing, dispositions, development, and property management activities. Additionally, Mr. Fox continues to be a member of the company's Investment Committee, a role he has held since 2016, and report to the company's President and Chief Operating Officer, Sumit Roy.
"I would like to congratulate Ben on his well-deserved promotion," said John P. Case, Chief Executive Officer of Realty Income. "Ben has done an excellent job in further developing our asset management activities and will continue to be integral in the effective management of our growing portfolio. Given his extensive experience and insightful approach to our business, I am confident he will be successful in his expanded role at the company."
Mr. Fox has been with Realty Income since 2007 working in various capacities, including Vice President, Strategic Initiatives in the company's Acquisitions department where he focused on sourcing and evaluating strategic investment opportunities. In 2013, Mr. Fox was promoted to lead the company's asset management function with the goal of further maximizing value and promoting growth within the existing real estate portfolio. Since that time, Mr. Fox has been a valuable contributor to the company's consistently high portfolio occupancy and favorable re-leasing recapture rates. Prior to joining Realty Income, Mr. Fox worked in investment banking at JPMorgan, and in merchant banking at Cappello Capital. Mr. Fox graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree from Cornell University, and received a Masters in Business Administration from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.
About the Company
Realty Income, The Monthly Dividend Company ® , is an S&P 500 company dedicated to providing shareholders with dependable monthly income. The company is structured as a REIT, and its monthly dividends are supported by the cash flow from over 5,000 real estate properties owned under long-term lease agreements with regional and national commercial tenants. To date, the company has declared 570 consecutive common stock monthly dividends throughout its 49-year operating history and increased the dividend 94 times since Realty Income's public listing in 1994 (NYSE: O). The company has in-house acquisition, portfolio management, asset management, credit research, real estate research, legal, finance and accounting, information technology, and capital markets capabilities. Additional information about the company can be obtained from the corporate website at www.realtyincome.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/realty-income-names-benjamin-n-fox-executive-vice-president-portfolio--asset-management-300577843.html
SOURCE Realty Income Corporation