FRANKLIN, Tenn., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Brad Hill has been named president of Peak Health Solutions, Inc., the premier mid-revenue cycle solution provider for acute care and physician practice markets seeking medical coding, clinical documentation improvement and compliance. Peak Health Solutions is an AMN Healthcare company.
"Brad will be an extraordinary addition to the AMN Healthcare family," said Susan Salka, President and CEO of AMN Healthcare. "Peak Health Solutions delivers technology-enabled revenue cycle solutions, and we are eager for Brad to help develop strategic partnerships with healthcare providers to solve their health information management challenges."
Hill brings to AMN over 25 years of healthcare leadership experience, primarily in revenue cycle technology and services for both payers and providers. He also brings demonstrated expertise in managing successful company mergers, technology partnerships, go-to-market strategy and sales, and service delivery and operations. He was most recently the chief revenue officer at RemitDATA, a healthcare technology company.
Before joining RemitDATA, he served as vice president of Payer Solutions for Passport Health Communications / Experian Health, a data management company. Hill also worked in executive leadership roles at Parity, Inc., HMS, Inc., and AIM Healthcare, Inc. He earned his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with an emphasis in Accounting from Murray State University.
About Peak Health Solutions, Inc.
Peak Health Solutions, Inc. ("Peak") is a leading national provider of mid-revenue cycle solutions to the acute care and physician practice markets. The Company's customizable services include remote medical coding, clinical documentation improvement (CDI), compliance and revenue integrity auditing, denials management, physician training and education, EMR-HIM optimization, preceptor development, and interim HIM staffing. Peak provides both fully and partially outsourced solutions through its domestic and offshore capabilities. Peak's national client footprint includes multi-facility hospital systems, large IDN's, teaching and community hospitals, and large physician practices. Peak's government division supports the United States Armed Forces, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Navy, Air Force and Army. For more information, visit www.peakhs.com .
About AMN Healthcare
AMN Healthcare is the leader and innovator in healthcare workforce solutions and staffing services to healthcare facilities across the nation. The Company provides unparalleled access to the most comprehensive network of quality healthcare professionals through its innovative recruitment strategies and breadth of career opportunities. With insights and expertise, AMN Healthcare helps providers optimize their workforce to successfully reduce complexity, increase efficiency, and improve patient outcomes. AMN delivers managed services programs, healthcare executive search solutions, vendor management systems, recruitment process outsourcing, predictive modeling, medical coding and consulting, and other services. Clients include acute-care hospitals, community health centers and clinics, physician practice groups, retail and urgent care centers, home health facilities, and many other healthcare settings. For more information about AMN Healthcare, visit www.amnhealthcare.com .
Media Contact:
Jim Gogek
(858) 350-3209
Jim.Gogek@AMNHealthcare.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/peak-health-solutions-names-brad-hill-as-president-300576649.html
SOURCE Peak Health Solutions