BASEL, Switzerland--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Syngenta AG announces that today it will file the relevant form with the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in order to voluntarily delist its American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). The delisting will become effective on January 18, 2018. NYSE has advised Syngenta AG that it will suspend trading of the ADSs prior to the market opening on January 8, 2018. As such, holders of ADSs will not be able to trade their ADSs on NYSE thereafter.
The delisting is in connection with the completion of the acquisition of all publicly held registered shares of Syngenta AG by CNAC Saturn (NL) B.V. Upon satisfaction of the applicable requirements for deregistration, Syngenta AG intends to file the relevant form with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), requesting the deregistration of the ADSs under the Exchange Act and the suspension of Syngenta AG’s reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. Syngenta AG has not arranged (nor is it currently planning to arrange) for the listing of the ADSs on another securities exchange or for quotation of the ADSs on any other quotation medium.
About Syngenta
Syngenta is a leading agriculture company helping to improve global food security by enabling millions of farmers to make better use of available resources. Through world class science and innovative crop solutions, our 28,000 people in over 90 countries are working to transform how crops are grown. We are committed to rescuing land from degradation, enhancing biodiversity and revitalizing rural communities. To learn more visit www.syngenta.com and www.goodgrowthplan.com . Follow us on Twitter ® at www.twitter.com/Syngenta .
Cautionary statement regarding
Some of the statements contained in this press release are . These statements are based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any . These statements are generally identified by words or phrases such as "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "intend", "plan", "will", "may", "should", "estimate", "predict", "potential", "continue" or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from the results and/or timing discussed in the , and you should not place undue reliance on these statements. Syngenta disclaims any intent or obligation to update any as a result of developments occurring after the period covered by this press release or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180107005134/en/
Syngenta International AG
Media Office
CH-4002 Basel
Switzerland
Tel: +41 61 323 2323
Fax: +41 61 323 2424
www.syngenta.com
or
Media:
Switzerland
Sydne Saccone, +41 61 323 2323
or
USA
Paul Minehart, +1 202 737 8913
media.relations@syngenta.com
or
Analysts/Investors:
Andrew McConville
Switzerland +41 61 323 0618
USA +1 202 737 6521
Source: Syngenta International AG