Firm Names New Corporate Co-Chairs
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Morrison Cohen LLP today announced the promotion of six of its attorneys. The firm congratulates Thomas B. Gardner (Litigation), Aaron B. Lauchheimer (Litigation), Jessica L. Lipson (Corporate), Walter T. Rahmey (Corporate), Joshua Saidlower (Corporate), Deborah S. Weinberg (Corporate) on their promotions from associate to senior counsel.
Morrison Cohen also named Randi Mason and David P. LaGalia as new co-chairs of the Corporate Department, joining current co-chair Bruce P. Levine . Stephen I. Budow , who has led the Corporate Department since the firm’s inception, will continue to advise the department as chairman emeritus.
“It is always exciting to be able to recognize the outstanding performance of our colleagues,” Morrison Cohen Chairman David Scherl said. “Our ability to develop talent is an essential component of our business model and integral to our continued quality of service to our clients. We look forward to the leadership and contributions of our new Corporate co-chairs and senior counsels to our culture of teamwork, integrity and excellence.”
About Morrison Cohen LLP
Morrison Cohen LLP is one of New York’s leading full-service mid-size commercial law firms. The firm was named to Vault’s 2018 “Best Midsize Law Firms to Work For” and to the “Top 150 Under 150” list of leading midsize law firms. For three consecutive years, the firm was named to The National Law Journal’s Midsize Hot List. Morrison Cohen offers deep experience and senior-level attorney attention at rational billing rates. The firm provides a full array of highly sophisticated corporate, capital markets, business litigation, real estate, bankruptcy and reorganization, compensation, benefits and employment, and other commercial, transactional, and individual client legal services.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005569/en/
Morrison Cohen LLP
Stephen T. Long, Director of Marketing
212-735-8677
slong@morrisoncohen.com
Source: Morrison Cohen LLP