RESTON, Va., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sheltered Harbor, an initiative designed to ensure consumers have access to critical account assets in the event of a major incident, today announced that its board of directors has appointed Trey Maust to be its new chief executive officer and Carlos Recalde to be its president and chief operating officer.
Maust has been a board member of Sheltered Harbor since 2016. Most recently, he served as the co-president and CEO of Lewis & Clark Bank, a bank he co-founded in 2006. Prior, Maust served as the chief financial officer at a Portland-area community bank. He began his career with Deloitte in audit and later in merger and acquisition services. Maust is extensively involved in local and national advocacy efforts on behalf of community banks. He is currently the chairman of the American Bankers Association's (ABA) Community Bankers Council and serves on multiple advisory and fiduciary boards of both for-profit and nonprofit organizations.
"Leading an essential organization like Sheltered Harbor is truly an honor," said Maust. "I am pleased to carry the torch and build on the tremendous efforts of the extended Sheltered Harbor team. With the entire financial services industry behind us, I look forward to channeling our collective resources into protecting U.S. consumers."
Maust replaces former CEO Steven Silberstein , who successfully led the organization during his two-year term. "Steve led Sheltered Harbor from a concept to reality," said Financial Service Information Sharing and Analysis Center (FS-ISAC) President and CEO Bill Nelson. "Standards have been developed to enable organizations large or small to become Sheltered Harbor ready."
Recalde has led the development of the Sheltered Harbor specification since its early days and most recently served as Sheltered Harbor's chief operating officer. Prior, Recalde was the chief technology officer for the asset management business at SunGard and FIS, and served in leadership roles at Barclays, Lehman Brothers and KPMG.
The Sheltered Harbor board of directors is comprised of all parts of the financial services industry, including U.S. banks, credit unions, brokers-dealers and organizations including the ABA, Credit Union National Association (CUNA), FS-ISAC, Financial Services Roundtable/BITS (FSR/BITS), the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA) and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA).
About Sheltered Harbor:
Sheltered Harbor, a subsidiary of FS-ISAC, is an initiative designed to enhance the U.S. financial services industry's resiliency capability in the event of a major incident to ensure consumers have access to critical account assets. Sheltered Harbor is based on standards and the concept of mutual assistance. Its members access specifications for common data formats, secure storage and operating processes to store and restore data, and receive a Sheltered Harbor acknowledgement of adherence to the specification. Visit www.shelteredharbor.org for more information.
About the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center (FS-ISAC):
The FS-ISAC is a non-profit corporation that was established in 1999 and is funded by its member firms. With about 7,000 members worldwide, FSISAC is a member-driven organization whose mission is to help assure the resilience and continuity of the global financial services infrastructure and individual firms against acts that could significantly impact the sector's ability to provide services critical to the orderly function of the global economy. FS-ISAC shares threat and vulnerability information, conducts coordinated contingency planning exercises, manages rapid response communications for both cyber and physical events, conducts education and training programs, and fosters collaborations with and among other key sectors and government agencies. For more about FS-ISAC, follow us on Twitter @FSISAC and join the discussion on LinkedIn or visit www.fsisac.com .
FS-ISAC/ Sheltered Harbor media contact:
Jane Khodos
jkhodos@fsisac.com
+1.703.674.6566
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sheltered-harbor-names-trey-maust-new-ceo-300580684.html
SOURCE FS-ISAC