MONTGOMERY, Ala., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- H2-Pharma, LLC, a privately held pharmaceutical company, announced today that it has re-launched XENICAL® (orlistat) 120 mg Capsules via its newly formed Branded division. This opportunity arose due to the partnership with CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH, who has recently completed its acquisition of XENICAL® from F. Hoffman-La Roche/Genentech, and has agreed to give H2-Pharma the exclusive distribution rights to market XENICAL® in the U.S.
XENICAL®, indicated for obesity management, received marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1999, and is the only prescription Orlistat product in the U.S.
H2-Pharma's President, Bryce M. Harvey said, "We are excited to re-launch XENICAL® as it represents the first branded product that H2-Pharma has brought to the U.S. market. Our brand strategy is to seek out underserved products that have the potential to grow with the right focus and commercialization efforts. XENICAL® is an established brand that is reflective of the type of branded products we are seeking, and we are eager to maximize its potential."
About H2-Pharma, LLC
H2-Pharma LLC is a privately-held pharmaceutical company focused on the sales, marketing and development of brand and generic products. With 45 years in the industry, H2-Pharma has developed the experience and distribution infrastructure to market and distribute products across the spectrum, combined with a level of personal service that is unmatched in the industry.
Please visit our web-site at www.h2-pharma.com
About CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH
CHEPLAPHARM is a family owned pharmaceutical company with its headquarters situated in Germany and offering branded products on a global level. The company focuses on an internationally oriented Buy and Build Strategy. In close collaboration with its business partners, CHEPLAPHARM generates sustainable annual growth rates.
CHEPLAPHARM specializes in selected active substances and indications and commits itself to provide branded products of high quality and to guarantee continuous availability to its customers.
Please refer to www.cheplapharm.com for additional information.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/h2-pharma-and-cheplapharm-announce-re-launch-of-xenical-capsules-300576528.html
SOURCE H2-Pharma, LLC