Founding Chairman of Perosphere’s Scientific Advisory Board and Institute Professor, MIT
DANBURY, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Perosphere Pharmaceuticals Inc. announced today that it has appointed Robert S. Langer, Sc.D., founding Chairman of Perosphere's Scientific Advisory Board and Institute Professor, MIT, to its Board of Directors.
Dr. Langer has authored more than 1,400 scientific papers and is the most cited engineer in history. His approximately 1,275 issued and pending patents worldwide are licensed or sublicensed to over 350 pharmaceutical, chemical, biotechnology, and medical device companies. This achievement, amongst others, has earned him the nickname "the Edison of Medicine” by the Harvard Business Review. Dr. Langer served as a member of the United States Food and Drug Administration’s SCIENCE Board, the FDA’s highest advisory board, from 1995 to 2002, and as its Chairman from 1999 to 2002. He is one of four living individuals to have received the nation’s two highest scientific honors - the National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology and Innovation.
In addition, Dr. Langer currently serves on the Board of Directors of PureTech Health plc, Kala Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. Previously he served as a director for Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Alkermes plc, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, and Millipore Corporation.
"Perosphere has made remarkable progress in the clinical development of its broad-spectrum anticoagulant reversal agent, ciraparantag," said Dr. Langer. "I look forward to helping the company continue to make great strides and seeing ciraparantag advance towards bringing this potentially life saving drug candidate to the patients who need it," added Dr. Langer.
"Dr. Langer has been a key advisor to Perosphere since its inception,” noted Bryan Laulicht, Ph.D., President and CEO of Perosphere Pharmaceuticals. “We are delighted that he has agreed to join Perosphere's Board of Directors at this exciting time in the company’s development."
About Ciraparantag
Ciraparantag is a small molecule drug candidate that directly combines with the oral direct factor Xa inhibitors and low molecular weight heparin allowing rapid re-establishment of a normal blood coagulation state without producing a procoagulant effect. Ciraparantag is undergoing clinical development as a ready-to-use sterile, intravenous injection.
About Perosphere Pharmaceuticals
Perosphere Pharmaceuticals is a private specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing rescue medications. Please visit www.perospherepharma.com for further information.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006303/en/
Perosphere Pharmaceuticals Inc.
Erik Steiner, +1-203-885-1111
Chief Operating Officer
e.steiner@perospherepharma.com
20 Kenosia Avenue
Danbury, CT 06810
Source: Perosphere Pharmaceuticals Inc.