CHARLOTTE, N.C., Jan. Healthstat, Inc., one of the country's most innovative workplace health promotion and wellness providers, has hired John Dawson, FSA, MAAA as Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary.
Prior to joining Healthstat, John Dawson served as a Health and Benefits Consultant and Actuary for over 20 years with Willis Towers Watson. In this new role of Chief Actuary for Healthstat, John will create models to measure the financial impact of Healthstat's program on patient lives and clients' overall healthcare costs.
"I look forward to focusing all my attention on understanding and maximizing the value that Healthstat delivers through its Employer-Sponsored Onsite Clinics," says John. "Healthstat has a unique approach to health promotion and behavioral change. Its embedded systems create new models of impact - for the employer and patient. Professionally, I have seen the Healthstat method at work, and have been impressed with its success. Personally, I am passionate about using my skills and my expertise to do good in the world. I see Healthstat's goals and objectives as being closely aligned with my own."
"Our goal is to change lives and discover how healthy a population can be," says Healthstat CEO Crockett Dale. "Employers continue to be concerned about the rising cost of healthcare as well as employee productivity, retention, and well-being. In this environment, onsite clinics are more popular than ever as a means of delivering value-based care. In turn, it becomes more crucial than ever for employers to be able to define and measure the outcomes that will direct their onsite programs toward the best results. Only then can employers maximize the value of the resources they invest in employee health. Our clients trust us to guide them, and John's actuarial skills will help to validate their confidence. We are honored that John is joining us in pursuit of this critical objective."
About Healthstat, Inc.
Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Healthstat, Inc. is a leading provider of employer sponsored onsite primary care, health-risk intervention, chronic care management and occupational medicine in employer facilities. Established in 2001, Healthstat currently manages and operates more than 300 health centers across the U.S. with a combined employee and dependent population of more than 300,000 people. Healthstat's nationally recognized, proprietary healthcare delivery model that centers around patient engagement and behavioral modification is considered the most successful solution for improving health and productivity and lowering healthcare costs for employers and their employees. Healthstat provides customized health and wellness solutions for any type of industry, including Manufacturing, Retail, Government, Distribution, University, and Not-For-Profit Human Services. For more information, visit www.healthstatinc.com .
Press Contact
Jennifer Maze
704.960.0317
188467@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/healthstat-inc-adds-chief-actuary-to-health-management-team-tapping-former-willis-towers-watson-svp-300579767.html
SOURCE Healthstat Inc.