EMERYVILLE, Calif., Jan. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:ADMS) today announced that it plans to offer $85 million of its common stock in an underwritten public offering. Adamas expects to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $12.75 million of its common stock in connection with the offering. The offering is subject to market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the offering may be completed, or as to the actual size or terms of the offering.
BofA Merrill Lynch, Leerink Partners and Evercore ISI are acting as book-running managers for the proposed offering.
A shelf registration statement relating to the shares was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2016, and became effective on November 21, 2016. The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus supplement. When available, copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to the proposed public offering may be obtained by contacting BofA Merrill Lynch, NC1-004-03, 200 North College Street, 3rd floor, Charlotte NC 28255-0001, Attn: Prospectus Department, email: dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com ; Leerink Partners, Attention: Syndicate Department, One Federal Street, 37th Floor, Boston, MA 02110, by telephone at (800) 808-7525 ext. 6132 or by email at Syndicate@Leerink.com ; or Evercore ISI, Attention: Equity Capital Markets, 55 East 52nd Street, 36th Floor, New York, NY 10055, or by telephone at (888) 474-0200 or by email at ecm.prospectus@evercore.com .
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
About Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Adamas is a pharmaceutical company committed to developing and commercializing products and product candidates for the treatment of chronic neurological disorders.
Forward-Looking Statements
This announcement contains forward-looking statements, including statements relating to Adamas’ expectations regarding the completion, timing and size of the proposed public offering. These statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from those projected and Adamas cautions investors not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this release. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, risks and uncertainties related to market conditions and satisfaction of customary closing conditions related to the public offering. There can be no assurance that Adamas will be able to complete the public offering on the anticipated terms, or at all. Risks and uncertainties relating to Adamas and its business can be found in the “Risk Factors” section of Adamas’s Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on January 22, 2018, and in the preliminary prospectus supplement related to the proposed offering to be filed with the SEC. Adamas undertakes no duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events or changes in Adamas’s expectations.
For questions, please contact:
Ashleigh Barreto
Director, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations
Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Phone: 510-450-3567
ir@adamaspharma.com
Source:Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc.