WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- RepEquity, the pioneering digital marketing and brand management company headquartered in Washington DC, announced today the hiring of Ashley Barna as Vice President of Digital Advertising and Search Engine Optimization (SEO). Prior to RepEquity, she was Director of Search Engine Marketing (SEM) at Sabre Hospitality Solutions, the world’s leading technology company to the global travel industry. With more than a decade at Sabre, Barna brings digital marketing experience working with prominent global brands in hospitality, hotel, tourism, real estate, and airlines.
A Premier Google Partner, RepEquity holds Google’s highest accreditation awarded to less than 3% of their global partners. RepEquity will utilize Barna’s expertise to support its best-in-class brand marketing solutions for its fast-growing client roster, which today includes some of the most recognized brands across myriad industries. As the fields of marketing, communications and advertising continue to merge and evolve, Barna’s arrival underscores RepEquity’s commitment to providing a holistic approach to organic and paid digital marketing for its current and future clients. Leading multiple teams of expert digital advertisers and SEO professionals, Barna will report directly to RepEquity’s CEO, Tripp Donnelly.
“A seasoned industry veteran, Ashley brings both proven leadership and enterprise-class experience to this new role that will enhance our digital marketing capabilities and support our growing client roster. We know Ashley’s broad background serving clients large and small will drive very effective, results-driven programs for our global, national and regional clients,” said Tripp Donnelly , CEO and founder. “Her background in recruiting, training, and building teams in fast-growth environments makes her perfectly suited to lead our award-winning digital advertising and search marketing teams, and we are thrilled to have her on board.”
About RepEquity
A leader in digital marketing, search, and reputation, RepEquity delivers technology and business solutions to define, connect, and protect brands in a rapidly changing digital landscape. RepEquity serves global brands and leaders in real estate, entertainment, technology, government, retail, and finance. The company has been named to both the INC. 500 and Deloitte Fast 500 lists as one of the fastest growing companies in America. The company has expanded with offices and employees in Washington DC, New York City, Boston and San Francisco. For more information, visit https://www.repequity.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005333/en/
RepEquity
Avelyn Austin, 347-983-5899
aaustin@repequity.com
Source: RepEquity