THE WOODLANDS, Texas, Huntsman Corporation (NYSE: HUN) is raising fourth quarter 2017 expectations due to its global MDI Urethanes business showing stronger than expected demand and margins in the fourth quarter despite typical seasonality. The robust strength in MDI Urethanes was somewhat offset by a weaker than expected quarter in its Performance Products division partially due to unplanned outages and weather related issues in the Gulf Coast region, which have since been fully resolved. Performance Products EBITDA is now expected to be down versus the prior year pro forma EBITDA of $61 million, adjusted for the sale of its European surfactants business. For the fourth quarter 2017 Huntsman Corporation expects to report total adjusted EBITDA modestly above the third quarter 2017 adjusted EBITDA of $340 million.
Huntsman will hold a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter 2017 financial results on Friday, February 23, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. ET. Fourth quarter 2017 results will be released to the public at approximately 6:00 a.m. ET that day via PR Newswire.
Call-in numbers for the conference call:
U.S. participants
(888) 680 – 0890
International participants
(617) 213 - 4857
Passcode
299 322 06#
In order to facilitate the registration process, you may use the following link to pre-register for the conference call. Callers who pre-register will be given a unique PIN to gain immediate access to the call and bypass the live operator. You may pre-register at any time, including up to and after the call start time. To pre-register, please go to:
https://www.theconferencingservice.com/prereg/key.process?key=PX4DVDQR7
Webcast Information
The conference call will be available via webcast and can be accessed from the company's website at ir.huntsman.com .
Replay Information
The conference call will be available for replay beginning February 23, 2018 and ending March 2, 2018.
Call-in numbers for the replay:
U.S. participants
(888) 286 - 8010
International participants
(617) 801 - 6888
Replay code
29385180
About Huntsman:
Huntsman Corporation is a publicly traded global manufacturer and marketer of differentiated and specialty chemicals with 2016 revenues of approximately $7 billion. Our chemical products number in the thousands and are sold worldwide to manufacturers serving a broad and diverse range of consumer and industrial end markets. We operate more than 75 manufacturing, R&D and operations facilities in over 30 countries and employ approximately 10,000 associates within our four distinct business divisions. For more information about Huntsman, please visit the company's website at www.huntsman.com .
Social Media:
Twitter: www.twitter.com/Huntsman_Corp
Facebook: www.facebook.com/huntsmancorp
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/huntsman
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current beliefs and expectations. The forward-looking statements in this release are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in the Huntsman companies' filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Significant risks and uncertainties may relate to, but are not limited to, volatile global economic conditions, cyclical and volatile product markets, disruptions in production at manufacturing facilities, reorganization or restructuring of Huntsman's operations, the ability to implement cost reductions and manufacturing optimization improvements in Huntsman businesses, and other financial, economic, competitive, environmental, political, legal, regulatory and technological factors. The company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by applicable laws.
 with multimedia: releases/huntsman-raises-fourth-quarter-2017-expectations-results-to-be-discussed-on-february-23-2018-300588564.html
SOURCE Huntsman Corporation