HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sidley Austin LLP is pleased to announce that Heather Palmer has joined the firm in its Houston office as a partner in its Environmental practice. She joins Sidley from Bracewell LLP. Ms. Palmer brings a wealth of environmental regulatory knowledge and experience in handling complicated energy-related environmental transactions.
Ms. Palmer is a well-versed environmental lawyer who advises clients in the energy, petrochemical, power and utility sectors. She handles a variety of regulatory counseling and enforcement matters, including onshore and offshore oil and gas regulation, solid and hazardous waste, oil and gas waste, wastewater and stormwater permitting, wetlands, water rights, Superfund litigation and compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act. Ms. Palmer also advises clients on environmental issues relating to shale play development, hydraulic fracturing and the permitting, construction and operation of liquefied natural gas import and export facilities in the U.S. On the transactional side, Ms. Palmer has extensive experience identifying and managing sources of environmental risks. This includes coordinating due diligence and advising clients on energy-related deals, M&A transactions, public offerings, financings, real estate transactions, bankruptcy and other matters where environmental issues become an important component.
“In the current regulatory environment, we are seeing an uptick in the number of challenges presented to our clients in energy-related transactions, particularly disputes over areas such as hydraulic fracturing and offshore oil and gas drilling,” said David Buente, co-leader of Sidley’s Environmental practice. “Heather’s substantial knowledge of the energy regulatory landscape, in addition to her experience working with federal and state energy and environmental agencies, will be beneficial in addressing various environmental concerns that may arise from transactions in the energy space.”
Ms. Palmer’s arrival in Houston is a continuation of the firm’s strategic expansion in this key market. Her deep experience in the energy and environmental sectors will augment the expansive transactional team in Houston as well as the range of high-level services we offer.
With 2,000 lawyers in 20 offices around the globe, Sidley is a premier legal adviser for clients across the spectrum of industries. Follow Sidley on Twitter @SidleyLaw .
For purposes of the New York State Bar rules, this press release may be considered Attorney Advertising and our headquarters are Sidley Austin LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, +1 212 839 5300; One South Dearborn, Chicago, IL 60603, +1 312 853 7000; and 1501 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005, +1 202 736 8000.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005896/en/
Sidley Austin LLP
Kellie Mullins, Director, Public Relations
+1 312 456 8716
kmullins@sidley.com
Source: Sidley Austin LLP