BRIGHTON, Mich., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Dakkota Integrated Systems, an award-winning Tier 1 automotive component manufacturer, announced today the appointment of Mark McCauley to chief operating officer, replacing Brian McDonell, who passed away suddenly in late July 2017.
McCauley, who reports to CEO Andra Rush, previously served as Dakkota's chief financial officer. He is based at the firm's headquarters in Brighton, Mich., 35 miles northwest of Detroit.
"Mark has done an outstanding job as CFO and possesses a deep understanding of how Dakkota operates," said Rush. "He also proved to be a highly effective leader at a time of sudden change. I know he will continue Dakkota's tradition of putting the customer first, supporting our people, and driving quality at every level of our operation."
In his new role, McCauley leads more than 2,200 team members who develop and integrate complex processes in support of assembly systems and mega-sequencing operations for interior and exterior automotive commodities. McCauley, who joined Dakkota in 2006, is credited with improving Dakkota's bottom line, year over year, as CFO for the past decade.
Before joining Dakkota, the Adrian College alumnus, who holds a master's degree in finance from Walsh College, held senior financial positions at Intier Automotive Interiors and Versatrim, OEM auto suppliers and subsidiaries of Magna International.
"This is an exciting and challenging time for the Dakkota team," said McCauley. "As our customers face a very dynamic and rapidly changing market, I look forward to leading Dakkota in support of their evolving needs."
About Dakkota Integrated Systems
Dakkota Integrated Systems, a joint venture established in 2001 between majority partner Rush Group LLC and Magna International Inc., manages the complete complex assembly and sequencing of integrated automotive commodities for original equipment manufacturers. Visit us at Dakkota.com .
Media Contact:
Micki Steele
(248) 587-7922 mobile micki.steele@tillmanllc.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dakkota-integrated-systems-appoints-new-coo-300588407.html
SOURCE Dakkota Integrated Systems