TORONTO, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Eastmain Resources Inc. (“Eastmain” or the “Company”) (TSX:ER) (OTCQX:EANRF) is pleased to announce the appointment of Tamara Brown to the Board of Directors.
Ms. Brown is a mining industry professional with over 20 years of experience in the mining and financial sectors. She is currently the Vice President of Corporate Development for Primero Mining Corp. and sits on the Board of Superior Gold Inc. Ms. Brown was previously Vice President, Investor Relations for Primero from 2010 to 2015 and Director of Investor Relations for IAMGOLD Corp. from 2009 to 2010. Formerly, Ms. Brown was an investor relations consultant for several junior exploration companies, partner of a boutique investment banking firm and a professional engineer in the mining industry. She graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering degree from Curtin University in Australia and has completed the Chartered Business Valuator course at York University.
Laurence Curtis, Eastmain Resources Chairman stated, “On behalf of the Board we welcome Tamara. Her strong skills and experience in the marketing, financial and technical aspects of our business will be a great addition to our Board. We look forward to working with her as we advance Eastmain’s gold portfolio.”
About Eastmain Resources Inc. (TSX:ER)
Eastmain is a Canadian exploration company with 100% interest in the Eau Claire and Eastmain Mine Gold Deposits, both of which are located within the James Bay District of Quebec. Clearwater, host of the Eau Claire Deposit, is the Company’s core asset with access to superior infrastructure in a favourable mining jurisdiction. Eastmain also holds a pipeline of exploration projects in this new Canadian mining district, including being a partner in the Éléonore South Joint Venture.
For more information:
Claude Lemasson, President and CEO
+1 647-347-3765
lemasson@eastmain.com
Joe Fazzini, CFO & VP Corporate Development
+1 647-347-3735
fazzini@eastmain.com
Forward-Looking Statements – Certain information set forth in this news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements consist of statements that are not purely historical, including statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or timing of future plans, and include, but not limited to, statements with respect to the potential success of the Company’s future exploration and development strategies, the prospective nature of the Company’s properties including the Eau Claire Deposit, and the Company’s plans to prepare a PEA for delivery in Q2 2018. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the control of Eastmain, including, but not limited to the impact of general economic conditions, industry conditions, dependence upon regulatory approvals, the availability of financing, ‎timely completion of proposed studies and technical reports, and risks associated with the exploration, development and mining industry generally such as economic factors as they affect exploration, future commodity prices, changes in interest rates, safety and security, political, social or economic developments, environmental risks, the risks set out in any technical reports in respect of the Company’s properties, risks related to the assumptions underlying Mineral Resource Estimates, insurance risks, capital expenditures, operating or technical difficulties in connection with development activities, personnel relations, the speculative nature of gold exploration and development, including the risks of diminishing quantities of grades of Mineral Resources, contests over property title, and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined. Readers are cautioned that the assumptions used in the preparation of such information, although considered reasonable at the time of preparation, may prove to be imprecise and, as such, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation to update such information, except as may be required by law.
Source: Eastmain Resources Inc.