SAN DIEGO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WealthPoint, a leading provider of business and life insurance advisory services with a focus on succession, exit and wealth transfer planning to entrepreneurial family groups and affluent clients throughout the U.S., expands into the Southern California market with a newly formed partnership with John Kraemer. "Adding John to our team enables us to provide our insurance and business advisory services to the Southern California market at a whole new level," said WealthPoint's Managing Partner, Ryan Barradas. "John brings a tremendous amount of respect within the Advisor community. His reputation, broad background and incredibly diverse personal experience in the area in which we focus put us in a position for sustained success."
John brings over 30 years of experience in family wealth governance, business management and financial services. "I was drawn to WealthPoint because of their commitment to complete transparency, extraordinary client experience, and their dynamic team of talented individuals. I've spent my career working to provide the best possible value to clients - focused on listening first, providing value through the planning and implementation process, and customizing my approach to suit each unique scenario I've encountered. Once I met with Ryan Barradas and his talented Team, I knew I had found a like-minded group committed to putting client needs first and foremost," says Kraemer. His core belief and determination to put his client's needs first are directly aligned with WealthPoint's mantra, Know your story™.
"I am thrilled to be partnering with WealthPoint and look forward to the valuable work we will do together in the future for trusted advisors and their valued clients," says Kraemer.
About WealthPoint
WealthPoint is headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona and specializes in providing a holistic approach to business and life insurance advisory services with a focus on succession, exit and wealth transfer planning. WealthPoint serves affluent individuals, family groups and middle-market, family-owned and closely held companies throughout the United States. The company's unique process combines thorough discovery, collaborative and flexible solutions, complete transparency and an unbridled commitment to implementation and on-going support. More information is available at www.wealthpoint.net .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wealthpoint-announces-new-insurance-partner-300587648.html
SOURCE WealthPoint