WAYNE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Teleflex Incorporated (NYSE: TFX), a leading global provider of medical technologies for critical care and surgery, announced today that it has completed its previously announced senior leadership transition. Effective January 1, 2018, Liam Kelly, who previously served as Teleflex’s President and Chief Operating Officer, assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kelly succeeds Benson Smith, who retired as Chief Executive Officer, effective December 31, 2017. Mr. Smith, who was re-elected to the Teleflex Board of Directors in May 2017 for another three-year term, will continue to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board. In addition, Mr. Smith will provide transition support to the Company on a consulting basis through December 31, 2019.
“On behalf of Teleflex’s Board of Directors, employees and stockholders, I would like to thank Benson for seven years of strategic leadership, exemplary service and dedication,” said George Babich, Lead Director of Teleflex. “During this time, Teleflex has solidified its position as a global leader in the medical device industry, and Benson is ending his tenure on the executive leadership team with the Company well-positioned for the future.”
“I am delighted to be assuming the role of CEO at such an exciting time for Teleflex,” said Liam Kelly. “The other members of Teleflex’s executive team and I join the Board in thanking Benson for his strong leadership over the past seven years, and we look forward to continued success as we position Teleflex for future growth.”
ABOUT TELEFLEX INCORPORATED
Teleflex is a global provider of medical technologies designed to improve the health and quality of people’s lives. We apply purpose-driven innovation – a relentless pursuit of identifying unmet clinical needs – to benefit patients and healthcare providers. Our portfolio is diverse, with solutions in the fields of vascular and interventional access, surgical, anesthesia, cardiac care, urology, emergency medicine and respiratory care. Teleflex employees worldwide are united in the understanding that what we do every day makes a difference. For more information, please visit teleflex.com .
Teleflex is the home of Arrow®, Deknatel®, Hudson RCI®, LMA®, Pilling®, Rüsch® and Weck® – trusted brands united by a common sense of purpose.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. These risks and uncertainties are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Teleflex, the Teleflex logo, Arrow, Comfort Flo, ConchaSmart, Deknatel, Hudson RCI, LMA, Neptune, Pilling, Rüsch, and Weck are trademarks or registered trademarks of Teleflex Incorporated or its affiliates, in the U.S. and/or other countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005021/en/
Teleflex Incorporated
Jake Elguicze
Treasurer and Vice President, Investor Relations
610-948-2836
Source: Teleflex Incorporated