PLEASANTON, CA, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Associa Northern California promotes Sonia Lopez, CMCA®, AMS®, to community director. As a community director, Ms. Lopez will be responsible for administrative operations and team supervision including training, supervising and evaluating staff and operations.
Ms. Lopez has more than 11 years in the community management industry including extensive experience in the private real estate sector. In 2016, Ms. Lopez joined Associa Northern California as a senior community manager where she focused on providing her communities and residents with best-in-business customer service.
Ms. Lopez is a contributing author for The Communicator and serves on the CAI Meet the Manager committee as well as Associa’s Culture and Wellness committee.
Ms. Lopez has obtained her Association Management Specialist (AMS®) and Certified Manager of Community Associations (CMCA®) designations awarded by the Community Associations Institute (CAI) and is working towards earning the Professional Community Association Manager (PCAM®) designation.
“Sonia is an exceptional team member and has thrived in her role as senior community manager,” stated Kelly Zibell, Associa senior vice president, operations. “This next step in her career is the perfect fit for her as well as for our communities and residents. Her industry experience and leadership skills will help guide our team to future success.”
Ms. Lopez obtained her Bachelor of Science in Business, Management and Marketing from the University of Phoenix.
With more than 180 branch offices across North America, Associa delivers unsurpassed management and lifestyle services to nearly five million residents worldwide. Our 10,000+ team members lead the industry with unrivaled education, expertise and trailblazing innovation. For more than 40 years, Associa has provided solutions designed to help communities achieve their vision. To learn more, visit www.associaonline.com .
Stay Connected:
Like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/associa
Subscribe to the Blog: https://hub.associaonline.com/
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/associa
Join us on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/associa
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/7abdce8c-a1bd-4afd-9bf1-b41cf8d99b29
Ashley S Cantwell Associa 214-272-4107 acantwell@associaonline.com
Source: Associa