STOCKHOLM, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Following the completion of the divestment of SEQR, Invuo Technologies AB ("Invuo") is pleased to announce the new operating Management, which will be responsible for implementing Invuo's B2B strategy. The new management, led by John Longhurst, CEO, consists of the following executives:
Martin Schedin, CFO and Head of Investor Relations: Martin, who joined Invuo in 2016, has more than two decades experience in exacting Finance roles, and is making highly important contributions to the company's efforts to maintain financial integrity, and reduce cash burn. Lars Sandtorv, Head of MeaWallet: Lars joined Invuo as the Head of MeaWallet when MeaWallet was acquired in July 2016. Prior to being the CEO at MeaWallet, Lars has held positions as CEO at TrustNordic and manager at IBM. Jonas Lundgren, Head of eProducts. Jonas, who has been with Invuo since 2013, has long experience from different roles and responsibilities within IT operations and support, leading and managing organisations.
Tomas Klevbo resigns as board member
Tomas Klevbo has informed the Chairman of the Board, Tomas Jalling that Klevbo, effective today, resigns from the Board in Invuo. The reason for leaving Invuo's Board is that since the listing of the former subsidiary Seamless Distribution Systems AB ("SDS"), where Klevbo is also a Board member, there has been several cases of potential conflict of interest, related to the fact that Invuo still holds 23.3 % of the shares in SDS. In order to be able to fully be able to contribute in the board of SDS, Klevbo has chosen to avoid any risk of future conflict of interest by resigning from Invuo's Board.
"Tomas Klevbo has made critical contributions as a member of Invuo's Board. By resigning from Invuo's Board, and thereby eliminating any risk of conflict of interest, Tomas Klevbo will able to fully participate in the important work as member of SDS' Board," says Tomas Jalling.
For further information, please contact:
Martin Schedin, CFO
martin.schedin@invuo.com
+46 8 564 878 00
This information is such that Invuo Technologies AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. This information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 17:45 CET on January 10, 2018.
About Invuo
Since 2001 Invuo has been providing its proprietary solutions and systems for mobile phone transactions. Invuo operates in two main business areas; mobile phone payment solutions provided through the brand MeaWallet™, and distribution of e-products. www.invuo.com
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com
http://news.cision.com/invuo-technologies-ab/r/changes-to-invuos--management-and-board,c2429291
The following files are available for download:
http://mb.cision.com/Main/4815/2429291/776116.pdf
Press release (PDF)
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/changes-to-invuos-management-and-board-300580822.html
SOURCE Cision AB