LOS ANGELES, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Transom Capital Group (“Transom”), a Los Angeles-based, private equity firm, announces the promotion of James Oh to Partner and member of the Investment Committee.
James Oh
James joined Transom in 2015 and is responsible for sourcing investment opportunities, conducting due diligence, executing transactions, and monitoring portfolio companies including financial/operational oversight and capital structure management. He currently serves on the board of directors of Transom portfolio companies AT Cross, Bravo Sports, Heath/Zenith and Loud Audio. James previously served on the board of directors for American Driveline Systems.
Transom invests into opportunities across multiple industries where operational substance combines with management’s industry knowledge to create sustainable value and improve stakeholder outcomes.
“Transom’s success has been a testament to our team and no one has played a more significant nor vital role than James,” said Ty Schultz, Transom Managing Partner. “Since joining Transom, James has led our M&A efforts, created tremendous value through his knowledge of transaction structure, leverage, and financial oversight and, most notably, grown into a leader at our firm. We are proud to elevate him to the role of Partner.”
Prior to joining Transom Capital, James was a Principal at The Gores Group conducting due diligence, executing corporate finance transactions, managing capital markets activities and relationships with capital providers globally. He previously worked at Wells Fargo Capital Finance as a Vice President in the Loan Originations and Loan Sales & Syndications groups where he originated, structured, executed, and syndicated senior credit facilities for acquisitions, recapitalizations, growth capital, refinances, and working capital needs for financial sponsors and its portfolio companies. Prior to Wells Fargo Foothill, James was an Associate at Rizvi Traverse Management, a Los Angeles-based private equity firm, and a Senior Associate in the Transaction Services Group at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
James earned a B.A. in International Economics from the University of California at Los Angeles and is a Certified Public Accountant.
About Transom Capital Group.
Transom ( www.transomcap.com ) is a leading operations-focused private equity firm in the -middle market which has raised more than $450 million across its three Funds. The firm’s functional pattern recognition, access to capital, and proven ARMOR℠ Value Creation Process combine with management’s industry expertise to create improved operational efficiency, significant top-line growth, cultural transformation and overall distinctive outcomes. Transom is headquartered in Los Angeles, California with an additional office in Seattle, Washington.
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/08edb926-8592-4032-8c3a-496664a25f84
Sam Butler 206.788.6504, sam@35thAvenuePartners.com
Source:Transom Capital Group