NEW YORK, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Notice is hereby given that Monteverde & Associates PC has filed a class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for The Northern District of California, case no. 5:18-cv-00130, on behalf of shareholders of Yume, Inc, ("Yume" or the "Company") (NYSE: YUME) who held YuMe securities and have been harmed by YuMe and its board of directors' (the "Board") for alleged violations Sections 14(a), and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") in connection with the sale of Company to RhythmOne, PLC.
Under the terms of the agreement, Purchaser will acquire all issued and outstanding shares of YuMe common stock, with each share of YuMe common stock exchange for the right to receive: (i) $1.70 in cash; and (ii) 7.325 ordinary shares £0.10 each in the capital of RhythmOne, plus cash in lieu of any fractional shares of RhythmOne Stock, in each case, without interest (the "Merger Consideration"). As a result, each share of YuMe common stock has an implied value of $5.20 per share. The complaint alleges that on December 26, 2017, in order to convince YuMe stockholders to tender their shares, the Board authorized the filing of a materially incomplete and misleading Form F-4 Registration Statement with the SEC. In particular, the F-4 contains materially incomplete and misleading information concerning: (i) financial projections for RhythmOne; and (ii) the valuation analyses performed by the Company's financial advisor, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. ("Deutsche Bank"), in support of their fairness opinion; and (iii) the background process leading to the Proposed Transaction.
If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later than 60 days from today. Any member of the putative class may move the Court to serve as lead plaintiff through counsel of their choice, or may choose to do nothing and remain an absent class member. If you wish to discuss this action, or have any questions concerning this notice or your rights or interests, please contact:
Click here for more information: www.monteverdelaw.com/investigations/m-a/ It is free and there is no cost or obligation to you.
Monteverde & Associates PC is a boutique class action securities and consumer litigation law firm committed that has recovered millions of dollars and is committed to protecting shareholders and consumers from corporate wrongdoing. Monteverde & Associates PC lawyers have significant experience litigating Mergers & Acquisitions and Securities Class Actions, whereby they protect investors by recovering money and remedying corporate misconduct. Mr. Monteverde, who leads the legal team at the firm, has been recognized by Super Lawyers as a Rising Star in Securities Litigation in 2013 and 2017, an award given to less than 2.5% of attorneys in a particular field. He has also been selected by Martindale-Hubbell as a 2017 Top Rated Lawyer.
Contact:
Juan E. Monteverde, Esq.
MONTEVERDE & ASSOCIATES PC
The Empire State Building
350 Fifth Ave, Suite 4405
New York, NY 10118
United States of America
jmonteverde@monteverdelaw.com
Tel: (212) 971-1341
Attorney Advertising. (C) 2018 Monteverde & Associates PC. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome with respect to any future matter.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/monteverde--associates-pc-files-class-action-lawsuit-on-behalf-of-shareholders-of-yume-inc-in-the-northern-district-of-california-300581682.html
SOURCE Monteverde & Associates PC