DALY CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Verity Health System, a nonprofit healthcare organization, today announced the appointment of Mark S. Fratzke, DNP, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Seton Medical Center and Seton Coastside, both parts of Verity Health. The dual health care centers serve patients and communities in San Francisco and northern San Mateo Country.
“Mark Fratzke brings a deep background in both academic and community medicine, along with extensive administrative, clinical and operational experience to Seton Medical Center and Seton Coastside,” said Rich Adcock, Chief Executive Officer of Verity Health System. “Mark’s contributions will advance Seton’s growth and progress and steer it on a trajectory towards more innovation approaches that will offer better care of the communities which Seton serves.”
“This is an exciting time for Seton and Seton Coastside,” said Thomas A. Nuris, Seton’s Board Chairman. “Under Mark’s leadership, Seton is well positioned for clinical excellence across many disciplines. I’m confident that Seton will set the bar high for quality care, safety and patient satisfaction and look forward to the programs and progress that Mark will shape as Seton continues its transformation.”
Fratzke was named interim President and CEO of Seton Medical Center and Seton Coastside in November, following his appointment as Chief Operating Officer earlier this fall. Prior to joining Seton, Fratzke worked at Kaiser Permanente as Senior Vice President and Area Manager for the East Bay Service Area and was Chief Operating Officer for Alameda Health System.
Additionally, Fratzke worked in several roles at Mayo Clinic including Chief Operating Officer and Chief Nursing Officer for its Southwest Minnesota region. His responsibilities at Mayo included supervising all regional clinical operations and clinical support services, creating programs for effective partnerships with local communities and physicians and implementing innovative initiatives to strengthen the nursing divisions.
“For me, health care is a mission and an opportunity to give back to our communities,” said Fratzke. “Seton is an organization that is really on the rise. I’m excited by the opportunity to contribute to this organization, to maintain our legacy of service to the surrounding region and to serving our diverse community of patients and staff. I look forward to advancing Seton and Seton Coastside on the path to greatness.
“I’m proud of our successes to date,” he continued, “including the funding and implementation of the hospital’s seismic retrofit, the development of forthcoming programs in post-acute care and the continuous improvement we are seeing in quality care and patient satisfaction. Additionally, we have recruited and retained talented physicians and staff, all of whom are critical to our success.”
Fratzke holds a doctorate in Nursing Practice from Rush University, a master’s degree in Healthcare Administration from the University of Minnesota’s Carlson School of Business and a bachelor’s degree in Nursing from Winona State University.
About Seton Medical Center
Founded in 1893, Seton Medical Center is a 357-bed hospital serving the 1.5 million residents of San Francisco and northern San Mateo County with comprehensive inpatient and outpatient medical specialties, as well as emergency and urgent care services. Its sister facility, Seton Coastside, is a 116-bed skilled nursing complex offering inpatient care and the only 24-hour standby Emergency Department on the Pacific Coast between Daly City and Santa Cruz. Seton and Seton Coastside are members of Verity Health System, a non-profit health care system comprising six facilities in northern and southern California.
Verity Health System
Verity Health System is a nonprofit healthcare system employing more than 6,000 staff statewide. The hospitals include 1,650 inpatient beds, six active emergency rooms, a trauma center and a host of medical specialties including tertiary and quaternary care. Verity’s two Southern California hospitals are St. Francis Medical Center in Lynwood and St. Vincent Medical Center in Los Angeles. In Northern California, O’Connor Hospital in San Jose, St. Louise Regional Hospital in Gilroy, Seton Medical Center in Daly City and Seton Coastside in Moss Beach are part of Verity Health.
Verity Health also includes Verity Physician Network and Verity Medical Foundation, encompassing hundreds of physicians across a variety of practice models, independent practice associations, ambulatory surgery centers and urgent care centers.
Since its creation in December 2015, Verity Health System has worked to revitalize its hospitals in Northern and Southern California and ensure financial sustainability in order to care for patients for generations to come – including the underserved.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005997/en/
Seton Medical Center
Mary Coady
Office - 650-991-6448
Mobile - 650-465-4312
Source: Verity Health System