NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Barclays announces the appointment of Daniel Nehren as Managing Director, Head of Statistical Modelling and Development, Equities. In this role he will be responsible for the development of algorithmic trading product and model-based business logic for the Equities division globally.
Mr. Nehren joins Barclays from Citadel, where he was Head of Equity Execution, responsible for all aspects of equity execution for asset management. Previously Mr. Nehren spent over five years at J.P. Morgan where he was the Global Head of Linear Quantitative Research.
Mr. Nehren started his career in finance at Goldman Sachs in 2001 leading a team of senior architects in designing and implementing a next-generation distributed trading platform for the Equities and Fixed Income Divisions. Mr. Nehren produced and delivered several electronic market applications and high frequency trading systems as the Executive Director of Equity Strategy.
Stephen Dainton, Global Head of Equities at Barclays, said: “With over 16 years of experience in the financial industry and a focus on global equity markets, Daniel is an exceptional addition to the team. His arrival underscores our commitment to delivering world-class electronic execution capabilities that will evolve with our clients’ diverse and wide-ranging needs.”
About Barclays
Barclays is a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank with global reach, offering products and services across personal, corporate and investment banking, credit cards and wealth management, with a strong presence in our two home markets of the UK and the US. With over 325 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays operates in over 40 countries and employs approximately 85,000 people. Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money for customers and clients worldwide.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006156/en/
Barclays
Brittany Berliner, +1 212-526-4894
brittany.berliner@barclays.com
Source: Barclays