SAN DIEGO, Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Global Payout, Inc. (OTCPink:GOHE) ("Global") is pleased to announce that its majority owned subsidiary, MoneyTrac Technology, Inc. ("MTRAC" "MoneyTrac", the "Company") has promoted Ms. Vanessa Luna to the distinguished role and position of Chief Executive Officer. Former CEO, James Hancock will assume the distinguished role of the Company's Chairman of the Board. Both appointments are effective as January 1, 2018.
The Company's promotion of Ms. Luna comes following her successful and groundbreaking nine-month role as MTRAC's COO. This succession comes at a pivotal time, as the Company positions itself strategically for its anticipated growth and expansion within the multibillion-dollar cannabis industry.
Said MTRAC Chairman of the Board, James Hancock: "I mentioned in the 2017 year-end review that was distributed last week that MoneyTrac is very much on the verge of significant growth from a revenue perspective. This is due in large part to the hard work and dedication Ms. Luna exhibited in cultivating some incredibly strategic partnerships and acquisitions for the Company. Her elevation to CEO provides the Company with the leadership it will need to foster continued growth and fully capitalize on an industry that is growing faster than any other right now. I am excited for her promotion and I look forward to offering her, and the Company's Board, valuable guidance and support in my role as Chairman."
Said MTRAC CEO, Vanessa Luna: "The time is absolutely now to charge forward with the goals and objectives that will make MoneyTrac the most recognized leader in financial technology, banking, and payment solutions for the underserved businesses of the cannabis industry. I am fully aware of the responsibilities and challenges that come along with accepting a promotion such as this, but I am confident that with the foundation we built for this Company in 2017, and with the many different ventures and opportunities we have loaded into our pipeline, that we are poised to gain the stronghold on this industry that we know we are capable of."
Included with the transition of Ms. Luna to CEO is the appointment of Mr. David A. Flores as the Company's new COO. Since June 2017, Mr. Flores has been instrumental in the Company's internal operational development in his role as MTRAC's Business Development Manager. His experience and knowledge are deeply rooted in his experience with the legal industry, where he gained several years of experience in operational support and management, including compliance oversight, HR, payroll and employee benefits administration, as well as in finance and accounting management. Mr. Flores will also be joining the Company's Board of Directors and will play a critical role in driving MTRAC's vision and objectives to fruition in collaboration with the Company's growing executive management team.
The Company has also selected a group of key individuals to fill the management positions that are being developed through its growth. Each of them bring invaluable industry experience and knowledge and will be important in the facilitation of the significant growth and expansion MTRAC anticipates over the next several months.
Over the next few months the MTRAC Management Team anticipates following through on continued execution of strategic partnerships and networking relationships which will enhance their business objectives. A prime focus in the beginning will be the Los Angeles market, but in any state which provides for legal cannabis use MTRAC's technology will prove vital in regulatory compliance, technological advancement, crypto-currency, and alternative banking solutions.
About Global Payout, Inc. (OTC Pink:GOHE)
Since the Company's inception in 2009, Global Payout, Inc. has been a leading provider of comprehensive and customized prepaid payment solutions for domestic and international organizations distributing money worldwide. In 2014, Global introduced its first online payment platform called the Consolidated Payment Gateway (CPG), which allowed its enterprise clients to transfer money to international bank accounts, mobile accounts, and prepaid card accounts. The development of the CPG became the foundation for the introduction of its new, state of the art FINTECH payment system in 2017, for both online and mobile applications to allow account holders to maximize an expanded suite of financial services and minimize operational costs. Global will continue to offer their FINTECH payment system to many vertical markets for support of foreign currency exchange and digital currency, including ongoing support of the banking industry and international governments.
About MoneyTrac Technology
MoneyTrac Technology, Inc. is a pioneer in offering a full-service solution for alternative banking and electronic financial solutions and provides all aspects of financial technology including E-Wallet and mobile apps services for businesses and companies in various "high-risk" industries. MoneyTrac's technology platform allows for its clients to access their financial information from anywhere in the world, in addition to providing tracking and compliance to help them manage and control the flow of all revenue through their business.
Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by, which such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time the statements are made and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainty and other factors that may cause our results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this press release. This press release should be considered in light of all filings of the Company that are contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov .
Public Relations and Media Contact:
Global Payout
www.GlobalPayout.com
619.795.5810 Office
Information@GlobalPayout.com
Communications Contact:
NetworkNewsWire (NNW)
New York, New York
www.NetworkNewsWire.com
212.418.1217 Office
Editor@NetworkNewsWire.com
Source:Global Payout, Inc.