RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Charles & Colvard , Ltd. (NASDAQ:CTHR), the original and leading worldwide source of created moissanite, today announced the hire of John Lane as its vice president of marketing. Lane is an expert marketing strategist who is responsible for building and executing a successful brand roadmap for the company.
Lane brings more than 18 years of experience in developing and cultivating brand strategies to Charles & Colvard. He most recently held the position of chief strategy officer at Centerline Digital, an agency crafting strategic content and experiences through curated digital initiatives for a variety of global clients. In this role, he was responsible for creating digital marketing strategies to better engage and motivate audiences and guiding the creation and activation of content and campaign plans via social media, owned and earned media. Prior to this position, Lane was vice president, strategy & creative at Centerline Digital.
“Charles & Colvard is an incredible brand that is pushing the envelope in the fine jewelry industry,” said Lane. “The company is proving that luxury can be beautiful and conscientious, and I’m excited to find new ways to share this story. There is tremendous potential for this brand to evolve and become more widely admired and followed for its innovative technology, sustainable practices and incredible products.”
“John brings extensive digital marketing leadership to our organization, and we’re thrilled he has joined our team,” said Charles & Colvard President and CEO Suzanne Miglucci. “As we continue to enter new global markets, John’s experience in developing innovative marketing strategies and generating creative content will help us better engage our customers and influence more meaningful relationships with key audiences.”
Charles & Colvard has been creating moissanite for more than 20 years and has spent this time tirelessly refining the way it produces this beautiful, lab created gemstone. Decades of innovation have culminated in breathtaking and accessible jewelry that lasts a lifetime.
For more information on Charles & Colvard Forever One Moissanite, please visit www.charlesandcolvard.com .
About Charles & Colvard, Ltd.
Charles & Colvard, Ltd., based in the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina, is the original creator and leading source of Forever One™, Forever Brilliant® and Forever Classic™ moissanite gemstones for fine jewelry. Moissanite is unique, available in three color grades (colorless, near-colorless and faint color) and produced from silicon carbide (SiC) crystals. Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite® is sold with a Limited Lifetime Warranty to wholesale distributors, manufacturers, retailers, TV shopping networks, and designers as loose stones or set in a wide variety of quality metal setting options. Charles & Colvard, Ltd. also sells direct to consumers through its wholly owned operating subsidiary, charlesandcolvard.com , LLC and through third-party marketplaces. Charles & Colvard, Ltd.’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “CTHR.” For more information, please visit www.charlesandcolvard.com .
Media Contact:
Jessy Fofana/LaRue PR
732.667.7777
jessy@laruepr.com
Source:Charles & Colvard Ltd.