STAMFORD, Conn., Charter Communications, Inc. (NASDAQ: CHTR) today announced that Vanessa Green Sinders will join its Government Affairs organization starting in January 2018.
Sinders will join Charter's Government Affairs team as a Senior Vice President reporting to Executive Vice President of Government Affairs, Catherine Bohigian. She will be responsible for directing the company's strategic policy and political engagement with Congress and with the Administration. "I am excited to have Vanessa lead this critical part of our government affairs activity," said Bohigian. "With her extensive policy background and success managing teams, Vanessa will be a tremendous asset to our Company."
Sinders joins Charter after four years as the Senior Vice President and Department Head for Government Affairs at the American Hotel and Lodging Association. In that capacity she oversaw the association's advocacy work at the federal, state and local levels and was an advisor to the Association's President and CEO on all policy and political issues. Sinders also managed the ten person Government Affairs Team.
Prior to her work at the American Hotel and Lodging Association, Sinders served as the Chief of Staff for the Campaign to Fix the Debt, where she oversaw implementation of the Campaign's strategy and directed the activities of its staff. Sinders previously spent more than nine years working in the U.S. Senate where she served as Chief of Staff to U.S. Senator Scott Brown and Policy Director for U.S. Senator Judd Gregg.
Sinders received a B.A in Government, Minor in Economics from Dartmouth College where she remains active in alumni affairs. She lives in Washington D.C.
About Charter
Charter (NASDAQ: CHTR) is a leading broadband communications company and the second largest cable operator in the United States. Charter provides a full range of advanced broadband services, including Spectrum TV™ video entertainment programming, Spectrum Internet™ access, and Spectrum Voice™. Spectrum Business™ similarly provides scalable, tailored, and cost-effective broadband communications solutions to business organizations, such as business-to-business Internet access, data networking, business telephone, video and music entertainment services, and wireless backhaul. Charter's advertising sales and production services are sold under the Spectrum Reach™ brand. More information about Charter can be found at charter.com .
 with multimedia: releases/vanessa-green-sinders-named-svp-government-affairs-300576552.html
SOURCE Charter Communications, Inc.