WASHINGTON, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Communications firm kglobal announced today the appointment of Noam Gelfond in a new dual role for the agency, Director of Business Development and head of West Coast Operations.
Gelfond most recently served in senior positions at Ketchum, Inc., where he was responsible for managing accounts as well as business development initiatives on a national and international scale.
Based in Los Angeles, Gelfond is evolving the agency's growth culture as well as opening doors to expanding kglobal's operations around the West Coast and other regions of the country.
"This is a logical next move for me and an ideal fit," said Gelfond. "I am very enthusiastic about joining an agency that has a business model built for today's communications and client landscape and one that is growing its footprint around the country and overseas," Gelfond added.
"We are especially pleased to bring on board someone with Noam's experience and know-how to be an essential part of our long-term growth plans," said kglobal CEO Mark Green. "Our organic growth has fueled significant opportunities to expand our client service and a steadily growing staff. At this stage in our evolution, we recognize we need to also grow from new sources, to continue offering the world-class excellence we now deliver to our clients."
In addition to his tenure at Ketchum, where he was based in Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Los Angeles, Gelfond served as head of communications for United Way of America, based in Alexandria, Va., as a Vice-President at Fleishman-Hillard, speechwriter for former U.S. Senator Joseph Lieberman, press secretary for U.S. Congressman Sander Levin, and a public affairs researcher and speechwriter in the office of the chairman at Chrysler Corporation in Detroit.
kglobal is a full-service communications firm with a broad range of clients, including trade associations, think tanks, Fortune 100 companies, manufacturers, and government agencies at the state and federal level. It ranks as one of the largest independent PR agencies in the United States.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kglobal-adds-noam-gelfond-as-it-expands-to-west-coast-300580806.html
SOURCE kglobal