PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Cardinal Analytx Solutions, a developer of advanced machine learning solutions for improving healthcare by predicting impending costs, today announced that several leading healthcare executives, medical professionals and academics will comprise the company’s founding advisory board.
“We are excited to welcome such an impressive group of individuals to our advisory board, and look forward to their guidance as we continue to grow Cardinal Analytx,” said Thomas McKinley, CEO of Cardinal Analytx. “Their expertise, combined with our experience in early trials, will be valuable as we expand the pilot of our predictive analytics solution into multiple Blue Cross plans across the country.”
The founding advisory board is comprised of
Dr. Susan Athey – An Economics of Technology professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, Dr. Athey’s research and teaching cover the economics of the internet and digital marketplaces, marketplace design, platform businesses, online advertising, the news media, financial technology, big data, machine learning and statistical methods for causal inference. She previously taught in the economics departments at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University and Harvard University.
Dr. Jeffrey Bailet – With more than 20 years of healthcare experience, Dr. Bailet is currently executive vice president of Health Care Quality and Affordability at Blue Shield of California, a 4-million-member nonprofit health plan that serves the state’s commercial, individual and government markets, where he is responsible for the management and performance of the company’s Network Management, Health Care Services and Wellvolution ® teams. A board-certified otolaryngologist, a Fellow of the American Academy of Otolaryngology and the American College of Surgeons, Dr. Bailet also serves as chair of the executive committee of AMGA (formerly the American Medical Group Association).
Ray Bradford – Bradford is founder and CEO of Spruce Health, which is dedicated to tackling the challenge of making high-quality healthcare more accessible, scalable and consumer-friendly with the help of software. Prior to founding Spruce, he was a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, focused on early-stage technology investments for the firm’s digital practice, and an early product development executive at Amazon Web Services. Bradford also is a member of the Stanford Medicine Board of Fellows, a past Forbes 30 under 30 designee, and named inventor on multiple patent applications related to scalable data systems.
Dr. John Espinola – As executive vice president of Healthcare Services for Premera Blue Cross, Dr. Espinola is responsible for the company's healthcare strategy, corporate innovation and strategic investments, and leads efforts to deliver healthcare value to customers. Earlier in his career, Dr. Espinola served in various leadership roles at other health plans, including as an executive director at United Healthcare, and practiced geriatric medicine in the Seattle metro area.
Dr. Alan Glaseroff – A national leader in preventing costly health crises, Dr. Glaseroff is on the faculty at Stanford’s Clinical Excellence Research Center, where he works to help develop new models of care. He also is an adjunct professor of Medicine, co-founder of Stanford Coordinated Care, for patients with complex chronic illness and serves as national faculty for the Institute of Healthcare Improvement’s “Better Care, Lower Cost” collaborative.
Dr. Trevor Hastie – Dr. Hastie is a past Chair of the Department of Statistics at Stanford University, known for his contributions to applied statistics, especially in the field of machine learning, data mining, and bioinformatics. Currently the John A. Overdeck Professor of Mathematical Sciences at Stanford University, he focuses his research on applied statistical modeling and prediction problems in biology, genomics, medicine and industry.
Ken Paulus – Paulus has led several major healthcare systems, as President and CEO of both Allina Health, one of the nation’s largest integrated delivery systems; and Atrius Health System, the largest integrated physician group in New England, as well as his role of COO for Partners Community HealthCare. Under Ken’s leadership, Allina became one of the nation’s most integrated and advanced information systems, winning the Davies Award for Information Systems Innovation.
Dr. Lee Sacks – Dr. Sacks is executive vice president and chief medical officer for Advocate Health Care, the largest health system in Illinois where he is responsible for health outcomes, patient safety, information systems, managed care contracting, PHO operations, research, medical education, risk management and insurance. He also is the founding CEO of Advocate Health Partners, a clinically integrated network that includes more than 5,000 physicians and coordinates care for nearly 1 million attributable lives in commercial, Medicare and Medicaid populations.
Dr. Kevin A. Schulman – A leading innovator in health management, Dr. Schulman currently serves as a professor of medicine at Duke University, where he is a faculty associate director of the Duke Clinical Research Institute at the School of Medicine, the country’s largest academic clinical research organization. In addition, at Duke’s Fuqua School of Business, Dr. Schulman also oversaw the growth of what has become the country’s largest health sector management program at any top business school.
Cardinal Analytx today also introduced its board of directors.
About Cardinal Analytx Solutions
Based in Palo Alto, Calif., Cardinal Analytx Solutions is an early-stage predictive analytics company that leverages machine learning and AI technology to identify potential high-expense health plan enrollees and provide targeted clinical recommendations designed to improve patient outcomes and contain costs. The company, which was spun out of Stanford University-affiliated StartX startup accelerator, is backed by Cardinal Partners, Premera Blue Cross and the Stanford-StartX Fund. Founded by two Stanford industry luminaries in medicine and biomedical data science, Drs. Arnie Milstein and Nigam Shah, Cardinal Analytx is committed to transforming patient lives by combining machine learning with clinical excellence. For more information, visit www.cardinalanalytx.com or email info@cardinalanalytx.com .
Media Contact:
Theresa Maloney
Cogenta Communications
415-225-5261
Theresa@cogentacom.com
Source: Cardinal Analytx