Noyes Acquires Chicago Based Kiely and Associates Tax and Accounting Practice
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Noyes, a 110-year-old wealth management and investment banking firm, announced the acquisition of Kiely & Associates, LLC, a 25-year-old Chicago tax and accounting practice founded by John J. Kiely.
The purchase advances Noyes’ multi-family offering, solidifying its position for high net worth financial advisors and their clients. Kiely & Associates will provide comprehensive family office, tax, and business solution services to Noyes’ existing clientele and the market. The launch of family office services is the latest in several service expansions to Noyes’ core business, that includes wealth management, investment banking, financial planning, and capital markets.
“John launched Kiely & Associates with the ardent commitment to his client’s best interests. This focus will serve Noyes well as we continue to expand our service offering,” said Matthew Reynolds, Noyes’ Chief Operating Officer.
“This acquisition and launch of family office services exemplify Noyes’ dedication to delivering a client-centric, financial advisory platform with unparalleled capabilities to financial advisors who provide holistic advice,” Reynolds concluded.
Kiely started his practice a quarter century ago from Checkers, Simon and Rosner in Chicago where he served market makers, seat holders, independent securities, and futures traders on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, The Board of Trade, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. He started his career in 1977 as a Special Agent for the IRS.
“The decision to integrate my practice with Noyes was driven by our shared belief that clients’ needs come first,” stated Kiely. “Noyes’ 110-year-old reputation and their holistic approach to financial decision-making could not be a better fit. The fact that Noyes is employee-owned and developing new client services reflects the foresight and care that clients need.”
A native of the Chicagoland area, Kiely earned his undergraduate degree from St. Mary’s College and his Juris Doctorate from DePaul University.
About Noyes
Noyes, through its subsidiaries, David A. Noyes & Company and Noyes Advisors, LLC, is a full-service investment firm headquartered in Chicago with branches throughout the Midwest. Noyes, founded in 1908, is one of the oldest securities firms in Chicago and has served the Indianapolis area for nearly 85 years. The employee-owned firm offers a comprehensive menu of products and services to individual and institutional clients. Noyes has eleven offices in Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. For more visit www.danoyes.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006158/en/
Noyes
Jeannette Martin
marketing@danoyes.com
Source: Noyes