CHICAGO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lincoln International, ("Lincoln"), a leading global mid-market investment bank, is pleased to announce that Monomoy Capital Partners ("Monomoy") has sold Katun Corporation ("Katun" or the "Company") to a Taiwanese buyer, General Plastic Industrial Co., Ltd. ("GPI"). The terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Katun is one of the world's leading providers of OEM-compatible imaging supplies, toner, photoreceptors and parts for copiers, printers and other equipment for the imaging industry. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Katun operates sales and distribution facilities throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, serving more than 11,500 customers in nearly 130 countries.
Over Monomoy's ownership period, Monomoy and Katun developed an operationally-focused strategic plan to transform the corporate carveout into a well-disciplined design and distribution business despite challenging market dynamics. Katun has emerged as a world-class aftermarket imaging supplies company poised for continued growth under the ownership of a strategic partner.
Justin Hillenbrand, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Monomoy, said "Lincoln's process and execution expertise and focused senior banker commitment were critical in achieving a highly successful outcome for the Company, its employees and its shareholders."
Bob Moore, CEO of Katun, added, "The Lincoln team's strong buyer relationships and access to global acquirers were key in identifying partners with the most compelling fit. Lincoln also had a deep understanding of Katun's value proposition and did an excellent job articulating our transformational story. We really enjoyed partnering with Lincoln on this transaction."
Lincoln acted as the exclusive investment banking representative for Monomoy and Katun, working closely with the Company's management team and shareholders throughout the sale process. This included providing advisory expertise and managing the preparatory, marketing, negotiation and due diligence phases of the transaction.
For more information on Lincoln's Global Business Services Group, please visit http://www.lincolninternational.com/industries/business-services/ .
About Lincoln International
Lincoln International specializes in merger and acquisition advisory services, debt advisory services, private capital raising and restructuring advice on mid-market transactions. Lincoln International also provides fairness opinions, valuations and joint ventures and partnering advisory services on a wide range of transaction sizes. With nineteen offices in the Americas, Asia and Europe, Lincoln International has strong local knowledge and contacts in key global economies. The firm provides clients with senior-level attention, in-depth industry expertise and integrated resources. By being focused and independent, Lincoln International serves its clients without conflicts of interest.
More information about Lincoln International can be obtained at www.lincolninternational.com
Media Contact: Heidi Becker
+1 (312) 506-2739
hbecker@lincolninternational.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lincoln-international-represents-monomoy-capital-partners-in-the-sale-of-katun-corporation-to-general-plastic-industrial-co-ltd-300587018.html
SOURCE Lincoln International LLC