NEW YORK, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- DFB Healthcare Acquisitions Corp. ("DFB Healthcare") announced today that it has filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the proposed initial public offering of its securities. DFB Healthcare plans to list its securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market.
DFB Healthcare is being sponsored by Deerfield/RAB Ventures, LLC, which was jointly founded by Deerfield Management Company L.P. ("Deerfield") and its management team, led by CEO Richard Barasch. Deerfield is an investment firm focused exclusively on the healthcare industry, and its investment activity spans both public and private securities. Mr. Barasch has more than 30 years of experience in healthcare services, health insurance, and related industries, and was CEO of Universal American Corp. from 1995 until the Company's acquisition by WellCare Health Plans in April 2017.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Deutsche Bank Securities will be the underwriters of the securities offering. A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time that the registration statement becomes effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. The registration statement can be obtained at www.sec.gov .
About DFB Healthcare Acquisitions Corp.
DFB Healthcare Acquisitions Corp is a newly organized blank check company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. It has not identified any business combination target and has not, nor has anyone on its behalf, initiated any substantive discussions, directly or indirectly, with respect to identifying any business combination target. Its acquisition and value creation strategy will be to identify and acquire a business in the healthcare sector.
The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. Copies of the preliminary prospectus related to the offering may be obtained, when available, from Goldman, Sachs & Co., Attention: Prospectus Department, 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282, or by telephone toll-free at 1-866-471-2526 or by email at prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com and from Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Attention: Prospectus Group, 60 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005-2836 (Tel: (800) 503-4611; Email: prospectus.CPDG@db.com ).
Contact
DFB Healthcare Acquisitions Corp.
Chris Wolfe, (212) 965-2400
cwolfe@rabventuresllc.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dfb-healthcare-acquisitions-corp-files-registration-statement-for-initial-public-offering-of-securities-300578226.html
SOURCE DFB Healthcare Acquisitions Corp.