New Jersey-based commercial insurance veteran brings diverse middle market experience
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Alliant continues to expand its presence on the East Coast, bringing on New Jersey middle market specialist Steve Reisler. As Vice President, Reisler will provide targeted risk management and insurance solutions to a growing and diverse portfolio of clients throughout the region.
“Steve has a multifaceted background and a proven track record for finding innovative solutions to a broad range of risks,” said Bob Bennetsen, Executive Vice President and Senior Managing Director, Alliant Americas. “He understands the unique market dynamics that affect the region’s businesses and will serve as a significant asset to clients across a broad range of industries and disciplines.”
As part of the Alliant team, Reisler will leverage the company’s strong presence in the real estate market to provide enhanced risk management solutions to condominium association clients. He will also tap into Alliant’s industry-leading workplace safety and claims management resources for workers’ compensation.
Reisler has more than 20 years of property and casualty insurance brokerage experience servicing clients throughout New Jersey and New York. Prior to joining Alliant, Reisler was Vice President with a regional insurance brokerage firm. He holds a bachelor’s degree in business from Lynchburg College.
Reisler will be based in the Fair Haven, NJ office of Alliant within the company’s Alliant Americas division. He can be reached at (732) 784-9781 or at Steven.Reisler@alliant.com .
About Alliant Americas
Alliant Americas provides midsized businesses with targeted insurance, risk management, and consulting services. As a dedicated middle-market platform with offices throughout the United States, Alliant Americas delivers a range of products and services that are regionally focused and backed by the company’s deep reservoir of research, resources, and talent. By “Thinking Forward,” Alliant Americas deploys a total solution to its clients that goes beyond insurance to improve business outcomes.
About Alliant Insurance Services
Headquartered in Newport Beach, CA, Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. provides property and casualty, workers’ compensation, employee benefits, surety, and financial products and services to clients nationwide, including public entities, tribal nations, healthcare, energy, law firms, real estate, construction, and other industry groups. More information is available on the company’s website at www.alliant.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125006046/en/
Alliant Insurance Services
Lynda Lane
Senior Vice President and Corporate Director
Marketing and Corporate Communications
(949) 260-5050
llane@alliant.com
Source: Alliant Insurance Services