MEMPHIS, Tenn., Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- S.J. Guzzo joins Duncan-Williams, Inc.'s headquarters in Memphis, TN as Managing Director for Debt Capital Markets Sales and Strategies. "I am excited about this opportunity at Duncan-Williams," Guzzo says. "Duncan-Williams and its seasoned sales and strategies groups are uniquely positioned to help our clients navigate through this challenging market."
Guzzo is charged with oversight of the national sales force which includes offices in Memphis, New York, Tampa, Boulder, Cleveland, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Charlotte, Doniphan, MO, and Jackson, Miss., and the firm's Fixed Income Strategies Group. "We are pleased and lucky to have S.J. join the Duncan-Williams family," says Duncan Williams, President of Duncan-Williams, Inc. "As we prepare to celebrate our 50th anniversary we are confident that S.J.'s leadership will be a major factor in our future successes."
Before joining Duncan-Williams, Inc., Guzzo began his career in Commercial Banking in his native New Orleans. He transitioned into institutional fixed income over twenty years ago, having served at Raymond James as Manager of Fixed Income Strategies and Stifel as Head of Fixed Income Sales.
"S.J. brings an extensive background in the fixed-income business. His expertise will benefit not only all of us at Duncan-Williams but will also benefit our clients," says Williams.
Guzzo received his MBA at NYU's Stern School of Business and his undergraduate degree in Finance from the University of New Orleans. Guzzo also is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA®).
About Duncan-Williams, Inc.
Duncan-Williams, Inc., is a Top 100 Brokerage Firm headquartered in Memphis, Tenn. The firm is a full-service brokerage and investment banking firm providing financial solutions to retail and institutional organizations in 50 states and 11 foreign countries. Duncan-Williams, Inc., is a member of FINRA, SIPC and BDA. Duncan-Williams, Inc., has offices in New York, Tampa, Boulder, Cleveland, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Doniphan, MO, Charlotte, and Jackson, Miss. The Women's Business Enterprise National Council certifies Duncan-Williams, Inc., as a Women's Business Enterprise (WBE). Additional information is available at www.duncanwilliams.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/duncan-williams-inc-adds-new-managing-director-in-fixed-income-300591432.html
SOURCE Duncan-Williams, Inc.