DENVER, Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- DCP Midstream, LP (NYSE:DCP) announced today that the board of directors of its general partner declared a fourth quarter 2017 common unit distribution of $0.78 per unit, or $3.12 per unit on an annualized basis. This quarterly cash distribution will be paid February 14, 2018 to unitholders of record at the close of business on February 7, 2018.
INVESTOR RELATIONS:
Irene Lofland
Phone: 303-605-1822
MEDIA RELATIONS:
Roz Elliott
Phone: 303-605-1707
This serves as qualified notice to nominees and brokers as provided for under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1446-4(b). Please note that 100 percent of DCP’s distributions to foreign investors are attributable to income that is effectively connected with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, DCP’s distributions to foreign investors are subject to federal income tax withholding at the highest effective tax rate. Nominees are treated as withholding agents responsible for withholding distributions received by them on behalf of foreign investors.
ABOUT DCP MIDSTREAM, LP
DCP Midstream, LP (NYSE:DCP) is a midstream master limited partnership, with a diversified portfolio of assets, engaged in the business of gathering, compressing, treating, processing, transporting, storing and selling natural gas; and producing, fractionating, transporting, storing and selling NGLs and recovering and selling condensate. DCP owns and operates more than 60 plants and 63,000 miles of natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, with operations in 17 states across major producing regions, and leads the midstream segment as one of the largest natural gas liquids producers and marketers and one of the largest natural gas processors in the U.S. Denver, Colorado based DCP is managed by its general partner, DCP Midstream GP, LP, which is managed by its general partner, DCP Midstream GP, LLC, which is 100% owned by DCP Midstream, LLC. DCP Midstream, LLC is a joint venture between Enbridge and Phillips 66. For more information, visit the DCP Midstream, LP website at www.dcpmidstream.com .
Source:DCP Midstream LP