J.P. Morgan Chase on Friday reported earnings that topped Wall Street's expectations after accounting for charges related to the tax law. 
The bank revealed it took a $2.4 billion charge in the fourth quarter due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Here's how the company did on an adjusted basis after that charge:
EPS: adjusted $1.76 vs. $1.69 expected according to Thomson Reuters Revenue: $25.45 billion vs. $25.15 billion expected according to Thomson Reuters The shares, which are up 30 percent in the last 12 months, were 1 percent higher Friday and hit a new all-time high.

Despite the one-time charges, CEO Jamie Dimon praised the bill.
"The enactment of tax reform in the fourth quarter is a significant positive outcome for the country. U.S. companies will be more competitive globally, which will ultimately benefit all Americans," Dimon said in the release. "The cumulative effect of retained and reinvested capital in the U.S. will help grow the economy, ultimately growing jobs and wages."
Dimon said on a call with the media that the company will be announcing something for the bank's employees "in the coming weeks" related to the tax bill.
It was a difficult trading environment for the bank. J.P. Morgan said its fixed income markets revenue declined 34 percent year over year driven by "continued low volatility" and "tighter credit spreads." The company's equity markets revenue was flat versus the previous year. 
The company returned $6.7 billion in capital to shareholders during the fourth-quarter with $4.7 billion in net stock buybacks.
Its shares rallied through year-end after the bank reported better-than-expected third-quarter results in October. 
Analysts expect the financial sector to benefit from the Republican tax overhaul, which President Donald Trump signed into law last month. The plan lowered the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent.
J.P. Morgan expects its fiscal 2018 effective tax rate to be around 19 percent.
KBW Research had estimated J.P. Morgan's 2018 effective tax rate will decline to 22 percent from 35 percent due to the tax plan. 
J.P. Morgan is one of the largest financial services companies in the world with assets of $2.5 trillion.