COSTA MESA, Calif., Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- SYSPRO, a global provider of industry-built ERP software , announced that Kristin Valentyn has joined SYSPRO USA as Chief Revenue Officer. As CRO, Valentyn will oversee all sales revenue for both Channel and Direct sales at SYSPRO USA. All sales channels will report to Valentyn in order to enable consolidated growth. Her efforts will include the application of comprehensive strategies that leverage the strengths of each team, creating a fantastic customer and partner experience from inception to long-term partnership.
"In support of our focus to strengthen SYSPRO management, Ms. Valentyn will be a strong addition to our Executive Team," said Joey Benadretti, President, SYSPRO USA. "Her hiring follows that of Doug Garnhart, a seasoned Silicon Valley CFO, and Dawna Olsen, a veteran in ERP and digital transformation, as CMO. Valentyn's extensive background in sales strategy–both for channel and direct sales–will be a valuable asset to SYSPRO as we continue momentum on our Gearing for Growth strategy."
"I am thrilled to join a team with such a solid reputation and long-term performance. There's so much on the horizon this year for SYSPRO and I can't wait to ride the wave of infinite possibilities," said Valentyn.
Valentyn comes to SYSPRO USA with extensive experience in ERP software, leading direct and channel sales. Most recently, she was Regional Vice President at Infor Global Solutions where she oversaw sales. Prior to Infor, Valentyn held senior positions at Oracle, SAP, and QAD. Valentyn has also dedicated several years to the UCLA Mentor Program, specifically focusing on Women in STEM, where she has served as a board member.
About SYSPRO
SYSPRO is a global, independent provider of industry-built ERP Software designed to simplify business complexity for manufacturers and distributors. Focused on delivering optimized performance and complete business visibility, the SYSPRO solution is highly scalable, and can be deployed on-premise, in the cloud, or accessed via a mobile device. SYSPRO's strengths lie in a simplified approach to technology, expertise in a range of industries, and a commitment to future-proofing customer and partner success.
SYSPRO has more than 15,000 licensed companies in over 60 countries across six continents.
Press Contacts:
Erin Schlee
Marketing Communications Manager
SYSPRO – United States
+1(714) 437 – 1000
Erin.Schlee@us.syspro.com
Stanley Goodrich
Public Relations Manager
SYSPRO – United States
+1(714) 437-1000
Stanley.Goodrich@us.syspro.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/syspro-usa-names-new-chief-revenue-officer-300590204.html
SOURCE SYSPRO