NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ares Capital Corporation (“Ares Capital”) (NASDAQ:ARCC) announced today that it will report earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 on Tuesday, February 13, 2018 prior to the opening of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Ares Capital Corporation invites all interested persons to attend its webcast/conference call at 12:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on the same day to discuss its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 financial results.
All interested parties are invited to participate via telephone or the live webcast, which will be hosted on a webcast link located on the Home page of the Investor Resources section of our website at www.arescapitalcorp.com . Please visit the website to test your connection before the webcast. Domestic callers can access the conference call by dialing (888) 317-6003. International callers can access the conference call by dialing +1 (412) 317-6061. All callers will need to enter the Participant Elite Entry Number 2598875 followed by the # sign and reference “Ares Capital Corporation” once connected with the operator. All callers are asked to dial in 10-15 minutes prior to the call so that name and company information can be collected. For interested parties, an archived replay of the call will be available approximately one hour after the end of the call through February 27, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) to domestic callers by dialing (877) 344-7529 and to international callers by dialing +1 (412) 317-0088. For all replays, please reference conference number 10115525. An archived replay will also be available on a webcast link located on the Home page of the Investor Resources section of Ares Capital’s website.
ABOUT ARES CAPITAL CORPORATION
Ares Capital is a leading specialty finance company that provides one-stop debt and equity financing solutions to U.S. middle market companies and power generation projects. Ares Capital originates and invests in senior secured loans, mezzanine debt and, to a lesser extent, equity investments through its national direct origination platform. Ares Capital’s investment objective is to generate both current income and capital appreciation through debt and equity investments primarily in private companies. Ares Capital has elected to be regulated as a business development company (“BDC”) and as of September 30, 2017, was the largest BDC by total assets and market capitalization. Ares Capital is externally managed by a subsidiary of Ares Management, L.P. (NYSE:ARES), a publicly traded, leading global alternative asset manager. For more information about Ares Capital, visit www.arescapitalcorp.com . However, the contents of such website are not and should not be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements included herein or on the webcast/conference call may constitute “forward-looking statements,” which relate to future events or our future performance or financial condition. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, condition or results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results and conditions may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Ares Capital Corporation undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements made herein or on the webcast/conference call.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005189/en/
Ares Capital Corporation
Carl G. Drake
John Stilmar
888-818-5298
Source: Ares Capital Corporation