WILMINGTON, Del., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Siegfried Group, LLP (Siegfried) is pleased to announce that Tiffany Watts, CPA, was recently promoted and is now a Director in Siegfried's Denver Market.
"Tiffany has been an outstanding addition to our Leadership team," said Wendy Sauré, Senior Vice President and Regional Market Leader for Siegfried's West region. "Her dedication and commitment to her role and to the relationships she's built in the Denver area are remarkable, and we're very excited to see what other achievements she will accomplish in her new role."
As a Director on Siegfried's National Market Leadership Team, Watts will focus on business development and providing five-star service to her clients, who work with Siegfried on their most important finance and accounting projects. Additionally, she will continue serving as a Leadership Advisor to her clients, Siegfried's Professional Resources in Denver, and the people in her life.
"I'm looking forward to helping my clients get through their most critical projects and push past their most challenging issues," Watts said. "Being able to contribute to the Firm in such a meaningful way is empowering and valuable to me."
Watts joined Siegfried in 2011 as a Professional Resource, returning to the Firm in 2015 after serving as the Director of Corporate Accounting at DCP Midstream. After earning her bachelor's degree and her master's degree in accounting from the University of Cincinnati, Watts worked at Grant Thornton for nine years, spending time in their Cincinnati and Denver locations.
More information about the Firm and its career opportunities is available at siegfriedgroup.com .
About The Siegfried Group, LLP
The Siegfried Group, LLP (Siegfried) works alongside financial executives across the nation, on their most important accounting and finance projects. Filled with an innovative spirit and led by an ambitious entrepreneur, Siegfried provides unique Leadership Advisory combined with high potential talent. At the heart of our Firm is our approach to individual leadership and the continual pursuit of helping people grow both personally and professionally. As a whole, we value having fun, being fair, and building and sharing stakeholder value.
Contact:
Megan Pettingill
(302) 660-1516
mpettingill@siegfriedgroup.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/siegfried-congratulates-tiffany-watts-on-new-leadership-role-300587698.html
SOURCE The Siegfried Group, LLP