SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Symic Bio, a biopharmaceutical company developing novel matrix-targeting biotherapeutics, today announced the appointment of Hicham Alaoui, Ph.D., as Senior Vice President of Discovery Biology. With this appointment, Dr. Alaoui will lead research into the identification and characterization of novel therapeutics enabled by the Symic Bio platform.
"Dr. Alaoui has more than 20 years of experience with drug discovery and development, with specific expertise in using transformational strategies and novel technologies to identify and optimize effective therapeutics," said Ken Horne, Chief Executive Officer of Symic Bio. "In addition to his experience, Dr. Alaoui's deep understanding of cell-environment interactions and their role in disease will be instrumental in the selection of new pipeline candidates."
Dr. Alaoui most recently served as Director of Biochemical and Cellular Pharmacology at Genentech, a member of the Roche Group. At Genentech, Dr. Alaoui was responsible for lead discovery and optimization, biomarker analysis and directing mechanism of action studies supporting small molecule and biotherapeutic research programs in multiple therapeutic areas. Prior to Genentech, Dr. Alaoui has held the position of Director of Biology at Stryker Biotech, where he lead discovery and bioanalytical efforts in support of pre-clinical and clinical studies. He has also held positions at VisEn Medical, NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals and Shire. Dr. Alaoui received his Ph.D. in Microbiology and Immunology from McGill University.
About Symic Bio
Symic Bio is a biopharmaceutical company developing novel matrix-targeting biotherapeutics, a new category of therapeutics focused on matrix biology. These biotherapeutics, with potential applications in a wide variety of disease states, are inspired by naturally occurring macromolecules that play key regulatory roles within the extracellular matrix. Symic Bio currently has two clinical candidates: SB-061, directed at disease modification and pain management in the treatment of osteoarthritis; and SB-030, which is targeting the prevention of peripheral vein graft failure. In addition, Symic Bio is investigating applications in the areas of fibrosis, oncology and diseases of the central nervous system. For additional information please visit the company's website at www.symic.bio , LinkedIn page at www.linkedin.com/company/symic-bio or follow on Twitter at www.twitter.com/symicbio .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/symic-bio-appoints-hicham-alaoui-phd-as-senior-vice-president-of-discovery-biology-300585517.html
SOURCE Symic Bio