Security Veterans Strengthen Aporeto’s Growth and Leadership In Protecting Containers, Microservices, and Cloud Applications
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Aporeto , a new security model for containers, microservices and cloud applications, today announced two additions to their leadership team with Jason Schmitt stepping in as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and Hussain Al-Shorafa as Vice President of Sales. Schmitt has also been named to Aporeto’s board of directors. Founder and former CEO, Dimitri Stiliadis , will continue to serve as the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and will remain on Aporeto’s board of directors.
Schmitt brings more than 20 years’ experience in security and enterprise technology product development and management, including work with Barracuda Networks, Steelbox Networks, Ariba, SPI Dynamics and Accenture. Most recently, he served as Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Security Products at Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Micro Focus, where he led all aspects of the Fortify application security and ArcSight security operations businesses. Schmitt has a proven track record in operational leadership, strategic thinking, as well as experience and insight into emerging, and rapidly changing cybersecurity technology markets.
“We’ve built Aporeto to address the gaps in legacy security as workloads move to the cloud by creating a new security model based upon identity, encryption and distributed policy that can span public and private clouds,” said Dimitri Stiliadis, CTO, Aporeto. “Jason’s industry and operational background is vital to Aporeto, and our product and market development efforts as we grow. As a highly-accomplished cybersecurity executive, he has a proven track record in partnering with enterprise IT customers on a global scale, and is the ideal person to lead Aporeto into our next phase of organizational development.”
With the appointment of Schmitt as CEO, Stiliadis will assume the role of CTO. Under Stiliadis’ leadership, Aporeto grew from an initial idea into a leading market player in providing cloud native security to protect microservices, containers, and Kubernetes deployments. Stiliadis successfully led the company through its Series A funding round, and oversaw the development of Aporeto’s early beta product and successful official launch in November 2017. In his new role, Stiliadis will continue working closely with Schmitt and the rest of Aporeto’s leadership team to drive product technology strategy and execute on the company’s growth strategy.
“We will be focused on quickly scaling the company to serve a market desperately in need of a new security model engineered specifically for multi and hybrid-cloud environments,” said Jason Schmitt, CEO, Aporeto. “Thanks to the vision and innovation of its founders, Aporeto stands alone in offering security that spans containers, microservices and cloud applications, and is untethered from network and infrastructure complexities.”
Additionally, Hussain Al-Shorafa will be joining Aporeto, where he will leverage his more than 18 years of experience in the technology industry. He joins Aporeto after spending nine years at Symantec in various sales and management roles, most recently leading the northeast region to 40% growth year-over-year. Hussain holds an EMBA from NYU Stern, London School of Economics and HEC Paris.
“We are delighted to have Hussain on board to drive our sales team, as we work to meet market demand for infrastructure independent products that improve organizational security posture while simplifying operations,” said Stiliadis. “The growth of our leadership team comes at crucial point in our company evolution and we’re looking forward to making some exciting product announcements in the near future.”
About Aporeto
Aporeto secures containers, microservices and cloud applications based on workload identity, encryption and distributed policy. It protects enterprises with Zero Trust security untethered from network and infrastructure complexity, simplifies operations, and scales across public, private, or hybrid clouds.
For more information, check out www.aporeto.com or www.twitter.com/aporeto .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005222/en/
Press inquiries to:
Zora Falkowski
(617) 779-1850
zfalkowski@shiftcomm.com
Source: Aporeto