Moses to guide global growth and brand building via partners.
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- TmaxSoft , a global software innovator for cloud, infrastructure, and legacy modernization, announced today Moses Mathuram will join the company as Vice President of Global Channels and Partnerships. In this newly formed role, Moses will have responsibility for enhancing and developing TmaxSoft’s global networks and alliances in addition to owning the overall channel strategy, plan, and route-to-market.
“We are thrilled to bring Moses onboard and leverage his experience building alliances to drive growth,” said Joshua Yulish, Global CEO and President of TmaxSoft. “His track record with channel partners like GSIs, OEMs, ISVs, VARs, etc., as well as the major public cloud companies will play an integral role in our future successes.”
Moses joins TmaxSoft after serving as the Associate Vice President of Global Alliances for Infosys where he developed the ecosystem of partnerships for the Infosys Cloud, Infrastructure & Security. Before his tenure with Infosys, Moses held alliance leadership positions internationally with IBM and Computer Associates, where he was responsible for building strategic partnerships and progressing organizational objectives.
“I’m confident with Moses’ skill set, professional accolades and experience, combined with a dedicated focus on the channel every day, he will help us navigate the next stage of our growth,” said Yulish. “This will allow us to scale consistently with our explosive rate of global expansion.”
A member of the Association of Strategic Alliances Professionals, Moses has a bachelor’s degree in Physics from Madras Christian College and an MBA in Marketing & International Business from the Hindu Institute of Management.
About TmaxSoft, Inc.
TmaxSoft is a global software innovator focused on cloud, infrastructure and legacy modernization, with solutions that offer enterprise CIOs viable alternatives to support their global IT powerhouses and drive competitive advantage. Tibero is the best enterprise RDBMS for the Virtual Data Center. OpenFrame is a legacy rehosting solution that enables mainframe applications, resources and data to be migrated to a less expensive, high performance open or cloud system while reducing TCO and minimizing risk of migration. JEUS is the first Web Application Server in the world to be J2EE 1.4, JAVA EE 5, and JAVA EE 6 Certified, and delivers improved security over traditional WAS. TmaxSoft was founded in 1997 in South Korea and today has over 1,000 employees in 20 strategic centers around the world. The company’s global headquarters is located in Chicago. Please visit www.tmaxsoft.com for more information.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005211/en/
Tech Image
Harvey Henao
T: (312) 673-6059
E: harvey.henao@techimage.com
Source: TmaxSoft, Inc.