PHOENIX, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Uptick Newswire “Stock Day” podcast keeps investors up to date on the latest penny stock news by bringing transparency in the micro-cap side of the market. Follow “Stock Day” and connect to over 600+ interviews from CEO’s on the OTC, Pink Sheets and micro-cap news from around the world by following “Stock Day” on YouTube, Google Play and iTunes. Everett Jolly, CEO and host of “Stock Day”, has been focusing on the industrial hemp industry and today Mr. Jolly welcomes back Mr. Howard Baer, advisor and consultant of Northsight Capital Inc. (OTCQB:NCAP) (“Northsight” or “Company”).
Recently the Company has acquired Crush Mobile Apps to help further the development of Nothsight’s Joint Lovers dating site, which is specific to the cannabis industry. Crush Mobile Apps has close to 1 million members and Northsight is confident that this partnership may help attract more members to its proposed “Joint Lovers” Cannabis dating site that should be ready to launch in the next 6 to 8 weeks. Continuing the interview, Mr. Baer elaborates on the specific individualized screening process for what type of cannabis companies Northsight has its eyes on. With over 28,000 registered cannabis companies that may be looking for a future exit strategy there are some very strategic acquisitions available. Many of these companies cannot become public on their own, but can by joining Northsight’s growing media platform. Northsight is also seeking a new management group, including CEO and VP of Marketing. Mr. Jolly congratulated Mr. Baer on Northsight recently upgrading to the QB on the OTC Markets and asks how the Company plans on growing its revenues in 2018. An easy question for Mr. Baer since cannabis companies are Federally and socially regulated on where they can advertise. The company plans, through acquisition of additional cannabis media companies and qualified management, on building Northsight Capital into the lead media platform for all aspects of the cannabis industry.
In closing Mr. Baer states, “The Cannabis industry is one of the fasting growing in the country. Northsight’s goal is to continually add investor value through sales, revenue, growth and earnings.
Listen to the interview by clicking here or the following link: https://upticknewswire.com/featured-interview-founder-howard-baer-of-northsight-capital-inc-otcqb-ncap
About Uptick Newswire and the “Stock Day Podcast”
Uptick Newswire is a private company reaching out to the masses keeping investors and shareholders up to date on company news and bringing transparency to the undervalued, undersold, micro-cap stocks of the market and is the sole producer of the Uptick Network “Stock Day” Podcast. The Uptick Network “Stock Day” Podcast is an extension of Uptick Newswire and has recently launched the Video Interview Studio located in Phoenix, Arizona with its new host Kathryn Donnelly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kU5SVLp4org
Follow us and keep an eye on Uptick's YouTube , Twitter , and Facebook for additional radio and video shows produced by Uptick! Also covering All things Weed from CBD to Growers. Latest Headlines include:
Premier Biomedical, Inc. (OTC:BIEI) announced the signing of an agreement with HealthWarehouse.com , Inc. (OTC:HEWA) to market, sell and distribute Premier’s topical pain relief products.
Hemp Inc. (OTCPink:HEMP), joins Uptick Newswire to discuss how he became Dean of Hemp University and the future of Industrial Hemp in the Southeastern United States.
Investors Hangout is a sponsor of “Stock Day”. Uptick Newswire encourages listeners to visit Northsight’s message board on: https://investorshangout.com/Northsight-Capital-Inc-NCAP-64662/
About Northsight Capital, Inc.
Northsight Capital, Inc. (" NCAP ") is comprised of a portfolio of online marijuana-related websites developed and operated by the company. These sites incorporate many aspects of the marijuana industry. The company provides its audience with a means to stay informed on the industry's most cutting-edge marijuana-related innovations and legislation. The company's most dynamic concept, Weed Depot, provides consumers with a geo-targeted map directory of medical and recreational dispensaries, head shops, doctors, attorneys and more within the marijuana industry. The Weed Depot app can be downloaded for free at the iTunes Store and Google Play. Weed Depot has an entire platform of content suited for every aspect of advertising and marketing to consumers from all businesses in the cannabis industry.
The company's 420 careers is a leading job site in the Cannabis space with 2,000 to 3,000 visitors a day and approximately 1 million page views per month.
Northsight Capital’s current websites include:
www.Weeddepot.com
www.420careers.com
www.MJBizwire.com
www.MarijuanaRecipes.com
﻿RateMyStrain.com
Wikiweed.com
MarijuanaMD.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Various statements in this release, including those that express a belief, expectation or intention, may be considered "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects or transactions. Forward-looking statements may also include projections and estimates concerning our future operating results and financial condition. When we use the words "will," "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "plan," "predict," "project," or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this press release; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control.
Contact:
Uptick Newswire LLC
Everett Jolly, CEO/Founder
602-441-3474
10000 N. 31st Avenue C307
Phoenix, AZ 85051
info@upticknewswire.com
www.upticknewswire.com
Source: Uptick Newswire
Source:Northsight Capital, Inc.