Acquisition Provides Expanded Platform for Future Growth
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Securus Technologies, a leading provider of technology enabled solutions for public safety, law enforcement and investigations, corrections, and government payment services, announced today it has acquired GovPayNet as part of its plan to further expand its payment servicing business.
GovPayNet is a category leader and solution-oriented processor of credit and debit card payments to government agencies. The company provides consumers with payment processing services for court fines and costs; cash bail; traffic, speeding and parking violations; and real estate and property tax payments. GovPayNet’s services are provided to over 2,300 agencies in 35 states, covering more than 26% of all U.S. counties.
Robert E. (Bob) Pickens, Chief Executive Officer and President of Securus Technologies, said, “We are very excited to be adding GovPayNet to our portfolio of products. Mark MacKenzie and team have over 20 years of experience in this sector and have built a business they can be proud of—high quality services, excellent customer satisfaction, and a great team of associates—all important attributes that we value in a company. We want to continue to build on our core competency of providing payment solutions to consumers of government and related services. With our addition of GovPayNet, we now process over 40 million payments annually. With additional investments in sales people and products, and by combining the capabilities of JPay, we plan to expand into additional segments of the government payment processing market and further grow our market share in this attractive sector.”
Mark MacKenzie, Chief Executive Officer of GovPayNet, said, “We are looking forward to expanding our capabilities under Securus Technologies. We have a great team and cutting-edge solutions. Combining with the Securus and JPay organizations will significantly accelerate our ability to add services, win new business in new areas, and grow revenue, all while continuing to provide high quality service for our valued clients.”
ABOUT GOVPAYNET (Government Payment Service, Inc.)
GovPayNet has been processing electronic payments of credit and debit cards on behalf of government entities for over 20 years. Established by a former Sheriff in 1997 to assist law enforcement agencies in handling cash bail payments by credit card, GovPayNet has expanded its portfolio of managed transactions to include payments for probation oversight, restitution, electronic monitoring costs, traffic and criminal fines, towing and impound fees, records fees, publicly administered child support, property tax and assessment payments, and a wide variety of payments to departments of revenue and treasurers, among others. The company now provides its services to more than 2,300 agencies across the U.S.
ABOUT SECURUS TECHNOLOGIES
Headquartered in Carrollton, Texas, and serving more than 3,500 public safety, law enforcement and corrections agencies and over 1,200,000 inmates across North America, Securus Technologies is committed to serve and connect by providing emergency response, incident management, public information, investigation, biometric analysis, communication, information management, inmate self-service, monitoring products and services, and government payment services in order to help our customers with solutions to their problems and to make our world a safer place to live for all of us. Securus Technologies focuses on connecting what matters ® . To learn more about our full suite of technology enabled solutions, please visit SecurusTechnologies.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006153/en/
Securus Technologies, Inc.
Russell Roberts, 972-277-0656
rroberts@securustechnologies.com
Source: Securus Technologies, Inc.