READING, Mass., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- As part of its recent merger, Eliassen Group and Principle Solutions Group today jointly announced that the combined business will adopt the Eliassen Group brand throughout all of its regions.
Moving forward as one organization, the rebrand effectively positions the combined entity to leverage its expanded geographic footprint that now includes 18 locations from coast to coast. The change also offers clients an expanded set of service offerings, all while delivering the world-class level of service and a people-first culture that has remained at the core of both organizations since their inception.
"Moving forward as Eliassen Group, we will continue to foster the relationships we have built while adding additional value for our clients by strengthening our Agile, creative and managed services capabilities and broadening our geographic reach," said Josh Nazarian, Eliassen Group's chief business development officer and co-founder of Principle Solutions Group.
"This is such an exciting time to be at Eliassen Group as we take this next step on our journey together," said David MacKeen, CEO of Eliassen Group. "Since announcing our merger with Principle Solutions Group, it has been clear that our organizations share a common purpose: to positively impact the lives of our employees, clients, consultants, and the communities in which we operate. So it is with great excitement that we announce this rebrand as our organization moves forward as one team that is committed to providing the best IT consulting and talent solutions in the marketplace."
"The level of talent of our combined organization is unparalleled," said Joe Ventura, chief people officer of Eliassen Group and co-founder of Principle Solutions Group. "Bringing these teams together provides us with the unique opportunity to harness our expertise and deliver innovative solutions to our clients."
The organization is headquartered in Reading, Massachusetts and offers technology staffing, Agile, creative, life sciences, and managed services to clients around the country. For additional information on Eliassen Group locations and contact information, please visit: http://www.eliassen.com/locations/
About Eliassen Group
Eliassen Group provides strategic talent solutions to drive our clients' innovation and business results. Leveraging nearly 30 years of success, our expertise in IT staffing, Agile consulting, creative services, managed services, and life sciences enables us to partner with our clients to execute their business strategy and scale effectively. Headquartered in Reading, MA and with offices from coast to coast, Eliassen Group offers local community presence, deep networks, as well as national reach. For more information, visit http://www.eliassen.com .
Media Contact:
Sandra G. Callahan
Head of Marketing
Eliassen Group
781 205 8148
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/eliassen-group-and-principle-solutions-group-adopt-unified-brand-300575810.html
SOURCE Eliassen Group