Low Brings 20 Years of Institutional, Wall Street Experience to the Los Angeles-based Family Office
LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Chiron Investments LLC, a Los Angeles-based family office, today announced the appointment of John Low, formerly of Hitchwood Capital, Karsch Capital and Goldman Sachs, as chief operating officer. Low became a principal at Chiron in Q1 2017. He brings more than 20 years of investment and operational experience in the financial services industry.
As COO, Low will be responsible for further institutionalizing Chiron’s investment infrastructure and for streamlining its procedures which span numerous real estate holdings, as well as professional and esports, non-traditional financing, restaurants, and select private equity and venture capital interests.
“John is partnering with Chiron at an especially important time in our development as our investment activity has increased significantly,” said Romie Chaudhari, chief executive officer of Chiron Investments. “His institutional mindset gained from decades of experience working with some of the top names on Wall Street, will be invaluable to me as we work to grow the firm and its portfolio. John has and will continue to have a positive impact on Chiron and I’m thrilled to have attracted a partner of his caliber to the firm.”
Prior to joining Chiron, Low was Head Trader and a Member of Hitchwood Capital LLC, a global multibillion-dollar long/short equity hedge fund headquartered in New York, where he played an instrumental role in the firm’s launch. He helped build out a fully functional and compliant trading desk and was also highly engaged in the firm’s investment process, compliance, risk management, operations, as well as its capital markets initiative. Prior to Hitchwood, Low worked for 12 years at Karsch Capital Management, LP, a global multibillion-dollar long/short equity hedge fund in New York, where he served as Managing Director and Co-Head of Trading. As a key member of the firm his responsibilities included implementation of procedures designed to help the firm grow, as well as monitoring the daily integration of research, trading and risk management.
Low also worked at Goldman Sachs where he was a Vice President. At Goldman, Low completed the Financial Analyst and Associate Training programs, was a market maker on the Nasdaq trading desk, and successfully built a network of institutional clients.
“I knew immediately upon meeting Romie that he had built a unique, entrepreneurial, non-traditional family office,” said Low. “His ability to understand and attract investments across a wide range of asset classes has been a critical factor in his success. Romie is an insightful thinker and I am excited to be working alongside him and contributing to Chiron’s future growth.”
About Chiron Investments LLC
Chiron Investments is a Los Angeles-based family office. Founded by Romie Chaudhari in 2007, it actively pursues direct investments globally with a primary focus in the U.S.
Chiron’s investment portfolio is diverse, primarily focusing on a wide range of real estate holdings. Chiron also has exposure to a number of other asset classes including professional and esports, non-traditional financing, restaurants, as well as select private equity and venture capital interests. For more information, please visit: www.chironinvestments.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005586/en/
Prosek Partners
Mickey Mandelbaum
(212) 279-3115
mmandelbaum@prosek.com
Source: Chiron Investments LLC