Longtime GM Director, Greg Ross, and VMware VP of Products and Solutions, Gabriele Di Piazza, bring automotive and telco expertise as the company advances in the Connected Car market
OAKLAND, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Globetouch , a leader in global connectivity services for the connected car and the Internet of Things (IoT), has announced the growth of their advisory board with the appointment of two new advisors.
Greg Ross, who has held numerous global leadership roles during his 31-year career with GM, will lend his experience in guiding Globetouch through the Automotive OEM and the Connected Car marketplace. Also joining Globetouch in an advisory role is Gabriele Di Piazza, a driving force in telco industry innovation within his role as Vice President of Products and Solutions at VMware , a software company that provides cloud-based and virtualization services.
A Detroit automotive insider, Ross serves as a trusted advisor for a variety of Connected Car businesses. His career at GM spanned three decades, most recently as Global Director, Business Development and Alliances. Ross was instrumental in the growth and scaling of GM’s OnStar, a program which Globetouch is partnered with to help expand GM’s network capabilities. Ross is recognized for his work managing GM’s multimillion-dollar global portfolio of alliances for its Connected Vehicle group, and will bring his global perspective to Globetouch’s strategy.
A reputable source within Silicon Valley, Gabriele Di Piazza brings more than 20 years of telco expertise in product management and business development at companies like VMware, Microsoft and Hewlett Packard. Di Piazza will offer an experienced hand as the company looks to capitalize on new areas of business growth, having earned a reputation for helping telcos redefine their business models to take advantage of opportunities within the Smart Cities, Connected Cars and Industrial IoT markets.
“We’re excited to kick off 2018 with both Greg and Gabriele joining our growing team of advisors,” said Riccardo Di Blasio, CEO of Globetouch Inc. “It’s a step in the right direction as Globetouch continues its focus on offering OEMs global coverage and connectivity for the Connected Car and IoT markets. With their extensive knowledge in these areas, Gabrielle and Greg will help shine a light on growth opportunities within the intersections of the automotive industry and the OEMs.”
Ross will be sharing his insights on Why & How OEMs Should Consider a Global Solution in an upcoming webinar with The Connected Car , on Wednesday, January 10 th at 10:00am EST. For more details visit: www.theconnectedcar.com/webinar.asp?webinar_id=1116
About Globetouch
Globetouch is a leader in global connectivity services for the connected car and the IoT. By building an ecosystem of operators with a next generation control center, Globetouch provides car manufacturers and IoT enterprises a single interface to reach a global footprint. Globetouch backers include Hermes Growth Partners, Impact Venture Capital, Spark Telecom Ventures and Wholesale, Verizon Ventures, CK Hutchison Holdings Limited, Digicel and NTT DoCoMo, 263 China, and Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd. To learn more, please visit: http://www.globetouch.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005653/en/
for Globetouch
Suzanne Hirsh, +1-415-429-5652
globetouch@libertycomms.com
Source: Globetouch