DALLAS, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Alliance Data Systems Corporation (NYSE: ADS), a leading provider of loyalty and marketing solutions derived from transaction-rich data, will host a conference call on January 25, 2018, at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss the Company's fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 results. Hosting the call will be Ed Heffernan, president and chief executive officer; and Charles Horn, chief financial officer.
The conference call will be available via the Internet at www.alliancedata.com . Additionally, there will be several slides accompanying the webcast. Please go to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary software. Please contact FTI Consulting by e-mail: alliancedata@fticonsulting.com with any questions.
About Alliance Data
Alliance Data ® (NYSE: ADS) is a leading global provider of data-driven marketing and loyalty solutions serving large, consumer-based industries. The Company creates and deploys customized solutions, enhancing the critical customer marketing experience; the result is measurably changing consumer behavior while driving business growth and profitability for some of today's most recognizable brands. Alliance Data helps its clients create and increase customer loyalty through solutions that engage millions of customers each day across multiple touch points using traditional, digital, mobile and emerging technologies. An S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company headquartered in Plano, Texas, Alliance Data consists of three businesses that together employ more than 17,000 associates at approximately 100 locations worldwide.
Alliance Data's card services business is a leading provider of marketing-driven branded credit card programs. Epsilon ® is a leading provider of multichannel, data-driven technologies and marketing services, and also includes Conversant ® , a leader in personalized digital marketing. LoyaltyOne ® owns and operates the AIR MILES ® Reward Program, Canada's premier coalition loyalty program, and Netherlands-based BrandLoyalty , a global provider of tailor-made loyalty programs for grocers.
Investor information about Alliance Data's businesses may be found here .
Follow Alliance Data on Twitter, Facebook , LinkedIn and YouTube .
Contacts:
Investors/Analysts
Tiffany Louder
Alliance Data
214-494-3048
Tiffany.Louder@alliancedata.com
Media
Shelley Whiddon
Alliance Data
214-494-3811
Shelley.Whiddon@alliancedata.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alliance-data-schedules-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-conference-call-for-january-25-2018-300576288.html
SOURCE Alliance Data Systems Corporation