LOS ANGELES, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Full Alliance Group, Inc. (OTC:FAGI) ("Full Alliance Group" or the "Company"), a multi-faceted holding company, is pleased to announce that Henry Tacsan Ruiz has joined the Full Alliance Group Board of Directors.
Mr. Ruiz is a partner with T&S Associates S.A., a prominent accounting and consulting firm located in Costa Rica. Henry holds a master's degree in business administration and has worked previously as an auditor / inspector for both the Bank of Costa Rica and Deloitte & Touche
FAGI management is very excited to add Mr. Ruiz to the board of directors. He will bring additional knowledge of the Latin American marketplace, and accounting acumen to Full Alliance Group, as we proceed with our strategic plan to expand our point-of-sale (POS) banking operations from Mexico to other countries in Central and South America.
We expect to announce another addition to the Board of Directors shortly, along with anticipated operational updates.
Sincerely,
Jacob Thomas
Chairman of the Board / CEO
Contact:
InvestorRelations@FullAlliance.com
ABOUT FULL ALLIANCE GROUP
Full Alliance Group Inc. (OTC: FAGI) is a multi-faceted holding company with varied interests in banking and point-of-sale (POS) technology, financial services, real estate, and nutraceuticals. Full Alliance management is diligently working toward definitive closings on the recent in-escrow acquisition of several Grupo Richard companies (including On Comercio). Full Alliance Group provides investment capital, modern business practices, and best-in-class management to assist growing companies to reach their greatest potential.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This shareholder update may contain a number of forward-looking statements. Words and variations of words such as: "expect", "goals", "could", "plans", "believe", "continue", "may", "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: our expectation for growth, benefits from brand-building, cost savings and margins.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: continued volatility of, and sharp increase in: costs/pricing actions, increased competition, risks from operating internationally, consumer weakness, weakness in economic conditions and tax law changes.
Source:Full Alliance Group, Inc.