SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Aerojet Rocketdyne today announced that Greg Jones will join the company on Feb. 5 as senior vice president, Strategy & Business Development. Jones will report directly to CEO and President Eileen Drake and will serve as one of the officers of parent company Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:AJRD).
Greg Jones Joins Aerojet Rocketdyne as Sr. Vice President, Strategy & Business Development
Jones brings more than 30 years of aerospace industry experience through strategic leadership roles at Orbital ATK, Orbital, The Boeing Company, and McDonnell Douglas. He most recently served as vice president of Corporate Business Development & International Programs for Orbital ATK.
In his new role with Aerojet Rocketdyne, Jones will champion the company’s long range strategic planning and growth initiatives, enhance customer alignment, and guide efforts to expand the business into new and adjacent markets.
“Greg’s diverse industry expertise will help us capitalize on our core strength of proven innovation through commitment to cutting-edge technologies,” said Drake. “As the aerospace and defense industry grows more competitive and complex, the key to sustaining healthy growth is our ability to strategically differentiate ourselves from our competitors while identifying unique opportunities for collaboration and advancement. I’m confident that adding Greg’s extensive knowledge to my senior leadership team will position us to accomplish just that.”
Aerojet Rocketdyne is an innovative company delivering solutions that create value for its customers in the aerospace and defense markets. The company is a world-recognized aerospace and defense leader that provides propulsion and energetics to the space, missile defense and strategic systems, tactical systems and armaments areas, in support of domestic and international markets. Additional information about Aerojet Rocketdyne can be obtained by visiting our websites at www.Rocket.com and www.AerojetRocketdyne.com .
Steve Warren, Aerojet Rocketdyne, 703-650-0278
Steven.Warren@Rocket.com
Lynn Machon, Aerojet Rocketdyne, 916-355-3587
Lynn.Machon@Rocket.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/1805251a-3eb8-4f8c-83ce-1f1d7c94e47d
Source:Aerojet Rocketdyne, Inc.