LAKE FOREST, Calif., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Crummack Huseby Property Management , a private property management company in Orange County, is pleased to announce the hiring of Erin Rice as its Controller, managing a team of seven employees in her department. She will be responsible for the daily maintenance of Homeowner Association finances and overseeing Crummack Husebys diverse portfolio of Homeowners Associations. Rice and her team are responsible for funds, vendor payments, and to ensure accounts are properly maintained providing a comprehensive analysis of the financial health of the Crummack Huseby clients.
Rice is a native Southern Californian who earned her degree in Business Economics with an Emphasis in Accounting from the University of Southern California at Santa Barbara. For the last 17 years, she managed accounting teams and implemented new processes. A career highlight in a previous role, Rice instituted a policy for her division of 24-hour, customer response time, creating a new company policy that benefited the company and their clients.
Sandy Huseby, Co-Founder/Co-Principal/COO is thrilled to expand their team. "Erin has extensive experience in HOA accounting, working with many of Southern California's top builders and well versed with large onsite and newly developing communities. From a Controller's viewpoint, she harnesses the Crummack Huseby reputation of being insightful, in-person, and invaluable."
About CRUMMACK HUSEBY
Crummack Huseby Property Management was awarded " Best Places to Work " three years in a row by the Orange County Business Journal and Best Companies Group. They have added value to communities throughout Southern California by working with HOAs, homebuilders, and land developers through their collaborative and customized approach. Their personalized philosophy to community management has allowed them to successfully discover and develop one-of-a-kind programs for new and existing communities. Learn More www.ch-pm.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crummack-huseby-hires-a-new-controller-with-a-record-of-success-300576711.html
SOURCE Crummack Huseby Property Management, Inc.