BOSTON, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BioDirection, a privately held medical device company developing novel and rapid point-of-care products for the diagnosis and management of concussions and other acquired traumatic brain injuries, today announced the appointment of retired Brigadier General Jack Hammond to the company's Military Advisory Board.
"As co-chairman of our Military Advisory Board, I am excited about working alongside General Hammond to develop and implement strategies for broadening our relationship with the Department of Defense and the U. S. Military," said Stephen Brackett, director of BioDirection. "General Hammond has a passion for the safety and well-being of our military developed over his distinguished career in the U.S. Army. We are indeed fortunate to have a man of his experience on our team."
During his distinguished 30-year military career in the U.S. Army, General Hammond commanded troops at the platoon, troop, battalion, and brigade level both at home and abroad, becoming the first Massachusetts officer to achieve the rank of general officer in a combat theater since World War II. Currently, he is the Executive Director of Home Base , a Red Sox Foundation and Massachusetts General Hospital Program that is dedicated to healing the invisible wounds of war affecting service members, veterans, and their families including post traumatic stress (PTS) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). The Boston-based organization provides a unique, intensive clinical care program, fitness and wellness-based programs, and education and research.
"I have worked closely with Steve Brackett through Home Base, and as a result have observed the development of BioDirection over the last few years," said General Hammond. "The time is right for the company to aggressively pursue military applications for its point-of-care Tbit™ System, which is well-suited for use in both military training and deployment situations."
After a brief deployment to Afghanistan in 2002, General Hammond deployed to Iraq in 2003 with the invasion force and simultaneously commanded two battalions; Task Force Patriot in Balad performing stability and security operations, and Task Force Enforcer in Fallujah conducting counter-insurgent operations. In Kabul, Afghanistan from 2011-2012, General Hammond commanded Task Force Yankee as the senior U.S. commander for Kabul Province. He was responsible for a multi-national security force of 3,000 personnel, providing security and support for 11 U.S. installations and 10,000 coalition members conducting counterinsurgency operations, humanitarian assistance, and area support missions.
General Hammond is the recipient of numerous military awards including the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster, Bronze Star Medal, Army Commendation Medal for Valor with Oak Leaf Cluster, French Medal of National Defense, and Bulgarian Medal of Mission Support. A native of Reading, Massachusetts, he holds a bachelor of science from the University of Massachusetts, a master's degree in healthcare marketing from Boston University, and was a national security fellow at Harvard University.
About BioDirection, Inc.
BioDirection is a privately held medical device company developing novel and rapid point-of-care technologies for the objective diagnosis and management of concussion and other traumatic brain injury (TBI). The company's lead product, the Tbit™ System, delivers biologically-based results shown to accurately confirm a TBI/concussion. BioDirection's platform system utilizes a patented bio-nanowire technology with the potential for use in a range of applications in point-of-care diagnostics. To learn more about BioDirection, visit http://www.biodirection.com .
Contact:
Adam Daley
Eric Goorno, President & CEO
Berry & Company Public Relations
BioDirection, Inc.
Tel: +1 (212) 253-8881
Tel: +1 (508) 308-8592
Email: adaley@berrypr.com
Email: egoorno@biodirection.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/retired-brigadier-general-jack-hammond-joins-the-biodirection-military-advisory-board-300583416.html
SOURCE BioDirection, Inc.