FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Broward Health has named Tory Y. Drakeford as its new vice president of human resources.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006064/en/
Broward Health has named Tory Y. Drakeford as its new vice president of human resources. (Photo: Business Wire)
“Broward Health is experiencing an exciting period of growth in our workforce and Tory will play a key role in ensuring that we attract, engage and retain the very best employees,” said Broward Health Interim President and CEO Beverly Capasso. “Tory has a proven track record of developing and managing effective programs and his extensive experience in hospital-based human resources is an excellent match for our team.”
As vice president of human resources, Drakeford and his team will be responsible for leading employee wellness initiatives, business intelligence, total rewards and retention efforts.
Drakeford has more than 13 years of experience and joins Broward Health from Jackson Health System where he served as the director of compensation. Prior to that, he served as director of compensation and recognition-retention at Vidant Health, and held the position of compensation manager at Tenet Healthcare where he oversaw compensation practice improvements including compliance with wage and hour laws.
He earned his bachelor’s degree from Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia and a Master of Business Administration from Kaplan College in Dallas, Texas.
About Broward Health
Broward Health, providing service for more than 75 years, is a nationally recognized system in South Florida that offers world-class healthcare to all. The Broward Health system includes the statutory teaching hospital Broward Health Medical Center, Broward Health North, Broward Health Imperial Point, Broward Health Coral Springs, Salah Foundation Children’s Hospital, Broward Health Weston, Broward Health Community Health Services, Broward Health Physician Group, Broward Health Urgent Care, Broward Health International, and Broward Health Foundation. For more information, visit BrowardHealth.org .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006064/en/
EvClay Public Relations
Agustina Goldbaum, +1-305- 261-6222, Toll Free +1-877-261-6222
agoldbaum@evclay.com
Source: Broward Health