SANTA MONICA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Activision Blizzard, Inc. (Nasdaq: ATVI) intends to release its fourth quarter 2017 results after the close of the market on Thursday, February 8, 2018. In conjunction with this release, Activision Blizzard will host a conference call that will be broadcast over the internet.
Thursday, February 8, 2018
1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Time)
To listen to the call, please log onto:
http://investor.activision.com/events.cfm
Or dial:
U.S. and Canada: 888-515-2235
International: 719-325-4942
Passcode: 1423198
A presentation corresponding with the conference call will be available in Adobe Acrobat format at http://investor.activision.com/events.cfm . A replay of the call will also be available approximately three hours after the call's conclusion and archived for one year in the Investor Relations section at www.activisionblizzard.com .
About Activision Blizzard
Activision Blizzard, Inc., a member of the Fortune 500 and S&P 500, is the world's most successful standalone interactive entertainment company. We delight hundreds of millions of monthly active users around the world through franchises including Activision's Call of Duty®, Destiny and Skylanders®, Blizzard Entertainment's World of Warcraft®, Overwatch®, Hearthstone®, Diablo®, StarCraft®, and Heroes of the Storm®, and King's Candy Crush™, Pet Rescue™, Bubble Witch™ and Farm Heroes™. The company is one of the Fortune "100 Best Companies To Work For®." Headquartered in Santa Monica, California, Activision Blizzard has operations throughout the world, and its games are played in 196 countries. More information about Activision Blizzard and its products can be found on the company's website, www.activisionblizzard.com .
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements: Information in this press release that involves Activision Blizzard's expectations, plans, intentions or strategies regarding the future, are forward-looking statements that are not facts and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause Activision Blizzard's actual future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements set forth in this release include the factors identified in the risk factors sections of Activision Blizzard's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon information available to Activision Blizzard as of the date of this release, and Activision Blizzard does not assume any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements believed to be true when made may ultimately prove to be incorrect. These statements are not guarantees of the future performance of Activision Blizzard and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond its control and may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006084/en/
Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Investors and Analysts:
ir@activisionblizzard.com
or
Press:
pr@activisionblizzard.com
Source: Activision Blizzard, Inc.