SAN RAFAEL, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Private Ocean, a Marin County wealth management firm, congratulates CEO and Co-Founder Greg Friedman on his recent recognition by InvestmentNews to its annual Icons and Innovators list.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006774/en/
Greg Friedman CEO of Private Ocean Wealth Management (Photo: Business Wire)
Honorees were chosen from more than several hundred nominations and went through a rigorous selection process designed to identify individuals who contributed profoundly and consistently to the advancement of the financial advice profession and for conceiving new ideas and tools that have propelled the industry forward.
“The individuals recognized in this year’s report have carried the financial advice profession forward and they’ve done it on the backs of their great ideas,” said Frederick P. Gabriel Jr., editor of InvestmentNews. “Our hope is that their stories will inspire others to bring forward the next big idea that powers the financial advice industry into a new era.”
Friedman, whose CRM firm, Junxure, was recently acquired by AdvisorEngine, a fintech company, has long been an advocate for innovating advisor technology to enhance the client experience and help advisors differentiate themselves in an evolving market.
“I started with a simple goal of wanting to make a positive impact on the world,” Friedman said. “Over the years I have surrounded myself with amazing people with incredible ideas, and this recognition is a reflection of all of their hard work and shared dedication to our clients. This is truly an honor and I am humbled by the extraordinary company of my fellow honorees.”
The awards will officially be distributed at the InvestmentNews Icons and Innovators Luncheon on April 18th at the University Club in New York City.
For more information, visit investmentnews.com/icons and follow Private Ocean on Twitter @_privateocean
About Private Ocean
Private Ocean is a wealth management firm deliberately structured to give clients the intimate experience of a small firm, while harnessing the power, depth and discipline of a much larger one. The Private Ocean team seamlessly integrates personal financial planning and institutional-class investing. Private Ocean clients interact directly with a tight-knit team of specialists led by recognized industry leaders and pioneers in planning, investing, ethics and technology.
In 2017, Private Ocean was named Best Wealth Management firm by North Bay Biz and has been named one of the Best Places to Work by The North Bay Business Journal in 2017 and the San Francisco Business Times in 2015. Richard Stone was honored with the Schwab IMPACT® Leadership Award at the 2011 Schwab IMPACT® conference. CEO Greg Friedman has been on Investment Advisor’s 25 Most Influential list. In 2011, Friedman received the Investment News Industry Influencer Award. He received the Schwab IMPACT® Best in Tech Award in 2007.
Formed in 2009, Private Ocean ( www.privateocean.com ) combined two of the oldest privately-held wealth management firms in the San Francisco Bay Area – Salient Wealth Management and Friedman & Associates. Founded by Richard Stone and Greg Friedman, the firm has over $1.2 billion in assets under management. Private Ocean works with senior executives, business owners and other affluent individuals with a minimum of $2 million to invest.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006774/en/
Private Ocean
Angela Giombetti, 919-986-1074
angela.giombetti@privateocean.com
Source: Private Ocean