Veteran Cleveland Trial Attorney Further Strengthens Award Winning Litigation Team
CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ulmer & Berne LLP announced today that Amanda Martinsek joins the firm as a partner in its Cleveland office. An accomplished business litigator with over 25 years of experience managing complex commercial disputes, Martinsek comes to Ulmer from Ice Miller LLP.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006136/en/
Amanda Martinsek (Photo: Business Wire)
“We are excited to welcome Amanda to Ulmer, where her expansive litigation skill set, business acumen, and passion for impeccable client service will be a tremendous asset to our clients,” said Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner-In-Charge of Ulmer’s Cleveland office. “Amanda has a reputation among Cleveland trial lawyers as a consummate pro, and we are thrilled to have her on our team.”
Martinsek has wide-ranging experience handling complex cases, including class actions, shareholder derivative claims, breach of contract disputes, products liability claims, and other litigation matters. She also regularly represents public and private clients in administrative proceedings and arbitrations.
“Amanda brings to the table an ideal mix of incredible energy, seasoned trial skills, and industry sector knowledge and sophistication – all traits that are highly valued by the clients who utilize our business litigation services,” said Jeffrey S. Dunlap, Co-Chair of Ulmer’s Business Litigation Practice Group.
For over 100 years, Ulmer’s litigators have assisted business clients in resolving complex disputes, practicing regularly in state and federal courts throughout the United States, and frequently acting as national and multi-district litigation counsel in securities, mass tort, and other class action matters. In 2014 and 2017, Ulmer’s Litigation Department was named “Ohio Firm of the Year” by Benchmark Litigation.
“It is an honor to join Ulmer, a firm with a sterling reputation in Cleveland and throughout the Midwest, as well as a strong commitment to fostering a collaborative and inclusive law firm culture,” said Martinsek. “Ulmer has deep bench strength across a number of different practices and industries and I look forward to helping our clients navigate complex disputes and further their business goals.”
Martinsek is continuously honored by The Best Lawyers in America and Ohio Super Lawyers, with inclusion in the Top 50 Women in Ohio and Top 25 in Cleveland. She has been active in the Ohio Women’s Bar Association since 2009, sits on the Cleveland Orchestra’s Advisory Council, and also served on the boards of the Murtis Taylor Human Services System and the Cleveland Rape Crisis Center.
Martinsek earned her B.A. in History from Oberlin College and her J.D. from New York University School of Law where she was a member of the Order of the Coif.
About Ulmer
Ulmer & Berne, established in 1908, focuses on exceeding client expectations and delivering superior, customized legal solutions for an exceptional value. From offices in Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati, Chicago, and Boca Raton, Ulmer’s attorneys handle cutting-edge, complex matters on a national basis across all practice areas, but retain the worth ethic, rates, and user-friendly attitudes reflective of the firm’s Midwest origins. Ulmer emphasizes world-class service and sophisticated expertise at flexible billing arrangements. For more information, please visit ulmer.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006136/en/
Ulmer & Berne LLP
Jason Milch, 312-379-9406
jmilch@baretzbrunelle.com
Source: Ulmer & Berne LLP