MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- C.H. Robinson (NASDAQ: CHRW) today announced the appointment of Robert (“Bob”) Houghton as its Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury. Houghton will lead the strategy and execution of the company’s investor relations and treasury programs and will act as a key contact for financial stakeholders. He will report to Chief Financial Officer Andrew Clarke. Houghton succeeds Tim Gagnon, who has been promoted to Vice President, NAST (North American Surface Transportation) Business Analytics.
“We are excited to have Bob join our organization,” said Andrew Clarke. “His extensive background in corporate finance, investor relations, and overall leadership roles make him a great fit for the C.H. Robinson Finance team. Tim has been a great partner leading our investor relations efforts over the past five years. He and his analytics team will continue to drive value for the business in his new role.”
Houghton brings 20+ years of finance experience, most recently as the Chief Financial Officer for Sherwin-Williams’ General Industrial Division. He also held leadership roles in financial planning & analysis and synergy capture in the Sherwin-Williams / Valspar transaction. He spent 15 years at General Mills in various finance roles, including Director of Investor Relations. Bob earned a Master of Business Administration in Finance from the University of Minnesota – Carlson School of Management and a bachelor’s degree from Washington University in St. Louis.
About C.H. Robinson
At C.H. Robinson, we believe in accelerating global trade to seamlessly deliver the products and goods that drive the world’s economy. Using the strengths of our knowledgeable people, proven processes, and global technology, we help our customers work smarter, not harder. As one of the world’s largest third-party logistics providers (3PL), we provide a broad portfolio of logistics services, fresh produce sourcing and managed services for more than 113,000 customers and 107,000 contract carriers through our integrated network of offices and approximately 15,000 employees. In addition, the company, our Foundation and our employees contribute millions of dollars annually to a variety of organizations. Headquartered in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, C.H. Robinson (CHRW) has been publicly traded on the NASDAQ since 1997. For more information, visit http://www.chrobinson.com or view our company video .
CHRW-IR
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006793/en/
C.H. Robinson
Media Inquiries:
Krysta Larson
krysta.larson@chrobinson.com
or
Investor Inquiries:
Tim Gagnon
tim.gagnon@chrobinson.com
or
Adrienne Brausen
adrienne.brausen@chrobinson.com
Source: C.H. Robinson