Pictures | Mon Jan 29, 2018 | 7:12am EST Editors Choice Pictures 
A resident reacts as he attempts to extinguish a fire that broke out at the Kijiji slums in the Southlands estate of Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Thomas Mukoya Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 A resident reacts as he attempts to extinguish a fire that broke out at the Kijiji slums in the Southlands estate of Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Thomas Mukoya Close 1 / 24 
Kesha is embraced by fellow singers after they performed Praying at the Grammy Awards. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Kesha is embraced by fellow singers after they performed Praying at the Grammy Awards. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Close 2 / 24 
Lava flows from the crater of Mount Mayon Volcano during an eruption in Legazpi city, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Lava flows from the crater of Mount Mayon Volcano during an eruption in Legazpi city, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Close 3 / 24 
A reveler takes part in the annual block party Desliga da Justica during pre-carnival festivities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. REUTERS/Ricardo Moraes Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 A reveler takes part in the annual block party Desliga da Justica during pre-carnival festivities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. REUTERS/Ricardo Moraes Close 
Winner Roger Federer of Switzerland cries while holding the Australian Open trophy. REUTERS/Thomas Peter Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Winner Roger Federer of Switzerland cries while holding the Australian Open trophy. REUTERS/Thomas Peter Close 5 / 24 
Women react outside their damaged home next to the scene of a bomb explosion at a police station in San Lorenzo, Ecuador. REUTERS/Daniel Tapia Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Women react outside their damaged home next to the scene of a bomb explosion at a police station in San Lorenzo, Ecuador. REUTERS/Daniel Tapia Close 6 / 24 
A Mexican policeman patrols at a dirt road as part of a joint operation to find James Martin Camacho Padilla, a missing 7-year-old boy with autism from Washington state, in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. REUTERS/Jose Luis Gonzalez Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 A Mexican policeman patrols at a dirt road as part of a joint operation to find James Martin Camacho Padilla, a missing 7-year-old boy with autism from Washington state, in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. REUTERS/Jose Luis Gonzalez Close 7 / 24 
A police officer fires tear gas during clashes with demonstrators as Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez is sworn in for a new term in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 A police officer fires tear gas during clashes with demonstrators as Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez is sworn in for a new term in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido Close 8 / 24 
Students with torches gather prior to a march in celebration of the 165th birth anniversary of Cuba's independence hero Jose Marti, in Havana, Cuba. REUTERS/Stringer Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Students with torches gather prior to a march in celebration of the 165th birth anniversary of Cuba's independence hero Jose Marti, in Havana, Cuba. REUTERS/Stringer Close 9 / 24 
Saudi Arabian billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal sits for an interview with Reuters in the office of the suite where he has been detained at the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. REUTERS/Katie Paul Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 Saudi Arabian billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal sits for an interview with Reuters in the office of the suite where he has been detained at the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. REUTERS/Katie Paul Close 10 / 24 
Survivors and guests walk inside the barbed wire fences at the former Nazi German concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz, during the ceremonies marking the 73rd anniversary of the liberation of the camp and International Holocaust Victims... more Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 Survivors and guests walk inside the barbed wire fences at the former Nazi German concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz, during the ceremonies marking the 73rd anniversary of the liberation of the camp and International Holocaust Victims Remembrance Day, in Oswiecim, Poland. REUTERS/Kacper Pempel Close 
Miley Cyrus arrives at the Grammy Awards. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Miley Cyrus arrives at the Grammy Awards. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly Close 12 / 24 
A bride adorned with a decorative sign on her dress waits for her wedding to start during a mass marriage ceremony organized by the Pakistan Hindu Council in Karachi, Pakistan. REUTERS/Akhtar Soomro Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 A bride adorned with a decorative sign on her dress waits for her wedding to start during a mass marriage ceremony organized by the Pakistan Hindu Council in Karachi, Pakistan. REUTERS/Akhtar Soomro Close 13 / 24 
Parishioners and revellers celebrate during a band march at the feast marking the shipwreck in 60 A.D. of Saint Paul, Malta's patron saint, in Valletta, Malta. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 Parishioners and revellers celebrate during a band march at the feast marking the shipwreck in 60 A.D. of Saint Paul, Malta's patron saint, in Valletta, Malta. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi Close 14 / 24 
The border fence between the U.S. and Mexico is seen in this picture taken from the Mexican side of the border in Tijuana, Mexico. REUTERS/Jorge Duenes Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 The border fence between the U.S. and Mexico is seen in this picture taken from the Mexican side of the border in Tijuana, Mexico. REUTERS/Jorge Duenes Close 
An injured man receives medical assistance after a blast in Kabul, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Mohammad Ismail Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 An injured man receives medical assistance after a blast in Kabul, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Mohammad Ismail Close 16 / 24 
Priyabrat Panigrahi, an artist, performs Hakanai, a choreographic work that features a solo dancer surrounded by a cubist landscape of moving digital images, in an auditorium in Chennai, India. REUTERS/Abhishek N. Chinnappa Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Priyabrat Panigrahi, an artist, performs Hakanai, a choreographic work that features a solo dancer surrounded by a cubist landscape of moving digital images, in an auditorium in Chennai, India. REUTERS/Abhishek N. Chinnappa Close 17 / 24 
Supporters of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny look out from windows of a building during a rally for a boycott of a March 18 presidential election in St. Petersburg, Russia. The placard reads "Police is waiting for us". REUTERS/Anton... more Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Supporters of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny look out from windows of a building during a rally for a boycott of a March 18 presidential election in St. Petersburg, Russia. The placard reads "Police is waiting for us". REUTERS/Anton Vaganov Close 18 / 24 
A devotee sprinkles water, considered holy, while being carried around the town in a vessel as part of rituals during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Thecho, Lalitpur, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 A devotee sprinkles water, considered holy, while being carried around the town in a vessel as part of rituals during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Thecho, Lalitpur, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Close 19 / 24 
A balloon flies over Swiss mountains during the International Hot Air Balloon Week in Chateau-d'Oex, Switzerland. REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 A balloon flies over Swiss mountains during the International Hot Air Balloon Week in Chateau-d'Oex, Switzerland. REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Close 20 / 24 
Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark celebrates winning against Simona Halep of Romania at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Toru Hanai Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark celebrates winning against Simona Halep of Romania at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Toru Hanai Close 21 / 24 
Activists pray during a rally in front of the White House, to mark the anniversary of "the first Muslim and refugee ban" and subsequent bans, in Washington. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 Activists pray during a rally in front of the White House, to mark the anniversary of "the first Muslim and refugee ban" and subsequent bans, in Washington. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Close 22 / 24 
Spain's team poses with gold medals and the championship trophy at the European Handball Championship. REUTERS/Antonio Bronic Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Spain's team poses with gold medals and the championship trophy at the European Handball Championship. REUTERS/Antonio Bronic Close 23 / 24 
A house is lit with the help of a generator, on a street in the dark after Hurricane Maria damaged the electrical grid in September 2017, in Naguabo, Puerto Rico. REUTERS/Alvin Baez Reuters / Saturday, January 27, 2018 A house is lit with the help of a generator, on a street in the dark after Hurricane Maria damaged the electrical grid in September 2017, in Naguabo, Puerto Rico. REUTERS/Alvin Baez Close