DENVER, - The law firm Messner Reeves LLP is pleased to announce Heather A. Salg has joined the firm as a Partner in the Litigation Practice Group. Ms. Salg brings 20 years of experience and has tried over 50 trials and arbitrations to verdict.
Ms. Salg defends insurance companies and their insureds, as well as large self-insurers in Federal Court and District Courts throughout Colorado. Her primary goal as an insurance defense attorney is to develop the relevant facts as quickly and economically as possible, provide an early and accurate assessment based on the facts and law, resolve matters as soon as they can be resolved, and zealously defend those cases that have to be tried.
Bruce A. Montoya, manager of Messner Reeves' litigation practice group, stated "We are thrilled to welcome Heather to our team. She is an accomplished trial lawyer and highly respected by the bench and bar as reflected by her nomination and election to the American Board of Trial Advocates (ABOTA). She is a tremendous addition to our esteemed trial group."
In 2013 Ms. Salg was invited to be a member of ABOTA, an organization with a primary mission of preserving the constitutional vision of equal justice for all Americans and our civil justice system. ABOTA is an invitation-only organization consisting of lawyers who have tried a minimum of 20 civil jury trials to conclusion.
Ms. Salg has been named a Super Lawyer annually since 2014, and in 2017 she was named to Super Lawyers' list of the Top 50 Women attorneys in Colorado. In 2016, 2017 and 2018 she was recognized as a Top Lawyer by 5280 Magazine. In addition, she has been AV-Rated by Martindale-Hubbell since 2009.
For more information about Heather A. Salg and her experience, please visit www.messner.com/heather-a-salg .
About Messner Reeves LLP
Messner Reeves LLP, a full-service national business law firm with more than 100 attorneys, provides legal services from six offices in Colorado, Nevada, California, and New York. Our clients range from Fortune 500 companies to individual entrepreneurs. We have earned a distinguished reputation for offering effective legal counsel, quick response, and the highest level of professional integrity in the following areas of practice: corporate transactions & securities, labor & employment, litigation- including commercial, insurance, constructions and professional liability, real estate, intellectual property, restaurant & hospitality, banking & financial services, art law, health law, trust & estates, transportation logistics, and private client and tax services. For more information, please visit www.messner.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/attorney-heather-a-salg-joins-messner-reeves-llp-as-partner-300580738.html
SOURCE Messner Reeves LLP