DEER PARK, N.Y., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ABLE Equipment Rental, Inc. of NY (ABLE) a supplier of Construction Equipment Rentals, Sales, Service and Parts, is pleased to announce that it has purchased the assets of Key Equipment, Inc. of Honey Brook, Pennsylvania (Key). The transaction will allow the Key facility to operate as the newest branch of ABLE Equipment Rental. ABLE will retain the current Key staff to operate it as its fourth location in the northeast.
Located in Chester County at 1799 Horseshoe Pike in Honey Brook, Pennsylvania, ABLE's newest branch is well situated to deliver equipment throughout Central PA.
"We're delighted that Key Equipment is joining the ABLE family," said Steven Laganas, ABLE's Chief Executive Officer. "Key's expertise and familiarity with the Central Pennsylvania market was certainly one of the factors that helped us in our decision-making. I look forward to partnering with all of Key's talented employees," Laganas added.
"From a strategic perspective, it will allow us to continue to serve as a trusted provider of aerial lifts , telehandlers , forklifts , and mini-cranes for Key's current commercial and industrial clients," said Chris Pera, ABLE's Chief Operating Officer. "We'll be able to offer excavation , portable power , air , heat , and traffic control equipment , plus specialty equipment such as rotating telehandlers , and under-bridge access platforms . All throughout the mid-Atlantic region that Key served," Pera added.
ABLE purchases its equipment from the industry's leading manufacturers and continues to add to its fleet. Equipment is available for daily, weekly, monthly and long-term rentals. There are also equipment financing plans available for new and used equipment.
About ABLE Equipment Rental
Founded in 1996, ABLE Equipment Rental is privately-owned. With corporate headquarters based in Deer Park, Long Island, NY, its other locations are in Edison and Pennsauken, NJ. ABLE provides Rentals, Sales, Service, and Parts, as well as applications for critical infrastructure maintenance and support, contingency planning, and disaster recovery. It offers a fleet of service vehicles providing emergency service and repairs to customer owned fleets. ABLE's four locations serve the northeast markets of NY, NJ, CT, PA, and DE. For more information on ABLE Equipment Rental, visit ableequipment.com or send an email to info@ableequipment.com
Contact:
ABLE Equipment Rental
Neil Goldstein
(631) 964-8109
ngoldstein@ableequipment.com
RELATED LINKS:
ableequipment.com
facebook.com/ableequipment
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/able-equipment-rental-welcomes-key-equipment-to-its-corporate-family-300580477.html
SOURCE ABLE Equipment Rental