Organizational shift demonstrates company commitment to managed and hybrid cloud services
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Computer Design & Integration LLC (CDI LLC) announced today the promotion of Rob Sienrukos to Vice President of Managed Services Sales. In this capacity, Sienrukos is responsible for continuing to grow CDI’s managed cloud services while overseeing a technical sales team and building client relationships.
During his decade-long tenure with the Company, Sienrukos has been instrumental in demonstrating CDI’s value proposition as a true consulting company with many annuitized and repeatable services independent of selling products. Sienrukos also significantly grew CDI’s managed and hybrid cloud offerings within the commercial and enterprise markets.
“We’ve done an excellent job at evolving our managed and cloud services portfolio to stay ahead of the hybrid IT curve,” said Sienrukos, Vice President of Managed Services Sales, CDI Managed Services. “I’m honored to accept this expanded role at a time where CDI is uniquely positioned to provide significant value to our customers through the use of cloud in their own infrastructure, CDI’s cloud, or the public cloud. I look forward to accelerating sales momentum, revenue growth and driving greater value and innovation for our client base.”
Sienrukos holds numerous industry certifications and has more than three decades of experience designing and implementing complex IT solutions and successfully managing sales and technical teams.
About Computer Design & Integration LLC (CDI LLC):
CDI LLC was founded in 1995, with corporate headquarters in New York City, as well as office locations in Teterboro, N.J., Philadelphia, Charlotte and Atlanta. The firm has been recognized as one of the nation’s top 500 IT solution providers offering clients and businesses of all sizes the most up-to-date hybrid IT technology solutions that solve today’s most complex business challenges. CDI LLC continually focuses on achieving client satisfaction by developing and implementing comprehensive and innovative technology solutions that enhance day-to-day business workflow processes. As one of the largest solution providers, CDI LLC combines the required experience, exceptional talent, quality assurance and stability that its clients strive to achieve.
For more information, visit cdillc.com or call 1-800-234-5531. Follow us on Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn and YouTube .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005163/en/
Media:
CDI LLC
Stephanie Clark, 201-426-9259
Stephanie.Clark@cdillc.com
Source: Computer Design & Integration LLC