SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Pegasus Solutions announces a new cloud-based business intelligence solution called Pegasus Analytics, which will be demonstrated at HEDNA Global Distribution Conference taking place January 29-31 in Austin, TX. This new single and multi-property solution is designed to help hotels improve revenue, profitability and market share through a combination of visually rich, interactive context-driven dashboards, powerful data discovery capabilities, data and human knowledge.
Pegasus Analytics supports revenue management and marketing goals by aggregating and pairing data collected and stored across different data sources, including CRS, PMS and Google Analytics, delivering actionable insights for impactful decision making. Within a single intuitive workspace, hotels now have visibility to analyze data such as reservation performance and booking pace, as well as website engagement, live visits and social referrals. This new capability eliminates the intensive tasks of accessing, inputting and analyzing data, and unlocks business-critical insights that hoteliers can immediately act upon.
"Hoteliers are telling us our Pegasus Analytics solution is helping them better understand their key business drivers and identify opportunities to optimize pricing, distribution, revenue, and direct sales," said Dean Ismael, Vice President of Business Intelligence and Analytics for Pegasus. "Hotels are tired of reports that can be one-dimensional and not deliver the data or capabilities that empower them. Too often dated reporting products prevent them from diving deeper into more specific layers of information to immediately surface hidden insights that are critical to gaining a competitive advantage. Pegasus Analytics solves that problem."
Pegasus Analytics allows hoteliers to communicate insights and data directly inside the platform through built-in collaboration and messaging features, reducing the time required to act upon the data. Hoteliers log in to analyze, interact and annotate historic and future performance data by channel, room type, rate, travel agent, consortia and other sources of business information.
Pegasus currently is demonstrating Pegasus Analytics both at HEDNA and upon request. Visit here to register for a demo , or visit here to find out more about the solution.
About Pegasus Solutions
Pegasus is a leading global technology provider empowering independent hotels, hotel groups and chains to grow their businesses in a digital world. The company provides a comprehensive offering of cloud-based Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) systems and services that are designed to help hoteliers connect with their guests, increase profitability and maximize productivity.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pegasus-solutions-unveils-analytics-solution-to-transform-how-hoteliers-improve-revenue-and-profits-300584602.html
SOURCE Pegasus Solutions