NEW YORK and SAN DIEGO, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Generali Global Assistance ("the Company) today announced that its Travel Insurance division, formerly CSA Travel Protection , has appointed James Sion as Chief Operating Officer (COO). The Company also disclosed that it has appointed Mark Taber as the Chief Insurance Officer (CINSO).
Chris Carnicelli, CEO of Generali Global Assistance, North America, commented on today's news, "Generali has been a pioneer in the assistance industry for more than 25 years, specifically for the travel insurance marketplace. As we move into a new era of insurance, one of education and transparency, we believe our travel insurance business is poised for significant growth. These two roles will be paramount in helping us execute on our goals and drive the future strategic direction of the business. Both James and Mark bring with them a wealth of industry knowledge and I look forward to having their expertise and counsel as part of the executive team."
Sion will head all operations and strategies of Generali Global Assistance's Travel Insurance division . He will be located in San Diego, the Company's Travel Insurance headquarters. Prior to joining Generali Global Assistance, Sion was the COO, Consumer Insurance for AIG in the Americas and brings extensive experience in the areas of insurance, operations, and transformation to the Company. He also worked at Allianz in various roles over the course of fifteen years. Sion holds a B.A. in political science from Rhode Island College.
Taber has been appointed to the newly created role of CINSO and will set the strategic direction for underwriting results and profitability for the travel insurance lines in the U.S. The position will also serve as the appointed actuary for the Travel Insurance division . Taber previously was the Claims Performance Analytics Executive at CSAA Insurance Group. Taber holds a bachelor's, master's and doctorate all in mathematics – the latter coming from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
Generali Global Assistance offers a full suite of innovative, vertically integrated travel insurance products and assistance services that help protect consumers against certain risks associated with travel. These products combine the institutional knowledge, quality, and customer service built by CSA over the past 25 years with the backing and underwriting ability of a global insurance brand – Generali.
About Generali Global Assistance
Generali Global Assistance, formerly Europ Assistance USA, has been a leading provider of travel insurance and other assistance services for more than 25 years. The Company offers a full suite of innovative, vertically integrated travel insurance and emergency services, identity protection solutions, and beneficiary companion services. Generali Global Assistance is part of the multinational Generali Group, which for over 185 years has created a presence in 60 countries with over 76,000 employees. Our success has been built on the foundation of trust that clients have placed in our ability to provide assistance in the most difficult of circumstances.
Generali Global Assistance offers travel insurance through vacation rental and property management companies, leading travel agencies, online travel agencies, other travel suppliers and directly to consumers. For more information on Generali Global Assistance and the policies offered for travelers, please visit: www.generalitravelinsurance.com .
Media Contact
Jesse Tron
M Group Strategic Communications (for Generali Global Assistance North America)
+1 212 266 0192
jtron@mgroupsc.com
www.generalitravelinsurance.com/press
Twitter: https://twitter.com/GeneraliTravel
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/generalitravelinsurance/
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/generalitravel/
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/generali-global-assistance-strengthens-executive-team-with-two-c-level-hires-focused-on-travel-insurance-300577125.html
SOURCE Generali Global Assistance