Greensboro, NC, Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --
Paula Canaday-Daeke
Michael Gibeault
Technology Concepts & Design, Inc. ( TCDI ), a pioneer in legal technology, has named Paula Canaday-Daeke and Michael Gibeault as senior directors of legal services .
“We are pleased to welcome Paula and Michael to the growing TCDI team,” said Bill Johnson, CEO of TCDI. “Together, their experience and expertise will help further expand our footprint across the U.S. by continuing to solve our clients’ legal challenges and maintaining our dedication to superior service and innovation.”
Paula is a seasoned sales and business development executive with more than 16 years of legal industry experience in working with corporate legal counsel and law firms. She was most recently a director of business development at Integreon and has held senior sales and business development positions with eDirect Impact and LexisNexis. Paula is a graduate of Middle Tennessee State University with a BBA degree in computer information systems.
Michael’s career has focused on supporting law firms and corporate legal departments with creative and cost-effective solutions that rely on cutting edge technology and highly skilled legal professionals. He was most recently a senior director at Morae Global and had previously served in executive positions at DTI Global, Epiq Systems, Robert Half International and LexisNexis. Michael is a graduate of Geneseo State University and the University of Oxford Said School of Business Senior Executive Program, and is a Certified Litigation Support Professional.
Learn more about how TCDI is redefining review at Legaltech in New York, January 30 – February 1, 2018. Stop by booth 1514 to meet the team and view a demonstration.
About TCDI
For 30 years, TCDI® (Technology Concepts & Design, Inc.) has been a pioneer in the legal market empowering law firms and corporations to secure, discover, analyze and defend critical data. Specializing in large-scale litigation case management, eDiscovery, managed document review, computer forensics and cybersecurity, our team of experts understands our clients’ specific data challenges. Visit www.tcdi.com for more information.
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4787945c-8edf-425c-b856-5e81f6915dcd
Alexis Robbins 661-644-8329 a_robbins@tcdi.com
Source: TCDI