NASHVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Fast-growing local media company American Hometown Publishing Inc. announced today it has hired content and product specialist David Arkin as its Chief Strategy Officer.
In the role, Arkin will be responsible for new product development positioned for attractive markets, audience growth strategies and he will help identify future acquisitions. AHP owns newspaper properties in five states and has completed two acquisitions and a merger in the past 100 days.
Most recently, Arkin served as Chief Content Officer for the Local Media Association, a leading newspaper industry trade group focused on product innovation and the development of new business models for an evolving industry. Previously, Arkin was Senior Vice President of Content for GateHouse Media Inc. where he launched the company's design and product center in Austin, Texas, which employed more than 200 people and provided print and digital services for internal and external clients. He also led audience growth strategies for GateHouse newsrooms and coordinated more than 400 print and digital redesigns.
"David is one of the brightest minds in the local media industry and has a strong track record of delivering outstanding products at scale," said AHP CEO Brad Dennison. "His addition to our senior management team demonstrates our commitment to the highest-quality user experience for our print and digital products, and supports our vision of becoming the preeminent hyperlocal media business in the nation."
This will mark the second collaboration for Dennison and Arkin, who previously paired up for eight years at GateHouse Media in arguably the world's largest test tube for hyperlocal print and digital news. The duo built the company's news and digital division, developed the digital strategies, and scaled technology for hundreds of newsrooms, resulting in significant audience growth.
"The chance to reunite with Brad at American Hometown Publishing was impossible to resist," Arkin said. "AHP is a strong company with the resources and capital structure to scale new concepts and innovate in the hyperlocal space. That's really exciting to me."
Arkin will begin his role with AHP in February.
About American Hometown Publishing Inc.
Formed in 2005, AHP is an independent media company that operates newspapers, websites and magazines in Florida, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and Oklahoma. AHP also operates its own proprietary digital marketing services platform, Hometown Digital Solutions, which launched in 2016. The company was acquired by Nashville-based West End Holdings LLC in July 2017.
For more information, visit www.americanhometownpublishing.com
About West End Holdings LLC
West End Holdings LLC is a special-situation private equity firm focused on acquiring non-strategic assets that are under-nourished from either a capital or leadership perspective. WEH solves problems for business owners by acquiring their underperforming assets, enabling them to refocus their limited management attention and financial resources on their more profitable businesses.
For more information, visit www.westendholdings.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/david-arkin-named-chief-strategy-officer-at-american-hometown-publishing-inc-300577792.html
SOURCE American Hometown Publishing