BANNOCKBURN, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Option Care Enterprises, Inc. , the nation’s largest independent provider of home and alternate treatment site infusion services, today announced that its board of directors has appointed John C. Rademacher, current interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Operations Officer (COO), as the company’s new Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately.
“After conducting an extensive search, the Board of Option Care believes John is the right person to lead the Company’s growth and ongoing success,” said Harry Kraemer, Option Care’s Executive Chairman of the Board. “John brings a wealth of healthcare industry experience and a keen strategic and analytical perspective to the role, and demonstrates the values that distinguish Option Care as the leader in the home infusion industry.”
“I am honored and excited to be given the responsibility to lead Option Care,” said John Rademacher. “We have such a proud heritage given all the great work over our 35-year history. With our national scale and highly qualified team, we are uniquely positioned as the market leader to continue to deliver high-quality, low-cost care to our patients and drive significant growth.”
Rademacher has over 25 years of health care related experience, and has held various executive-level positions at leading healthcare companies, including Cardinal Health where he served as President and General Manager for both the Ambulatory Care Division and the Nuclear and Pharmacy Services Divisions, and at Cigna Corporation where he served as President of CareAllies and Chief Operating Officer for the CIGNA Behavioral Health business.
About Option Care
Option Care Enterprises, Inc. (Option Care) is the nation’s largest independent provider of home and alternate treatment site infusion services. An industry leader, the company draws on nearly 40 years of clinical care experience to offer patient-centered therapy management. Option Care’s signature Home Infusion Plus services include the clinical management of infusion medicines, nursing support and care coordination. Option Care’s multidisciplinary team of more than 1,800 clinicians – including pharmacists, nurses and dietitians – are able to provide home infusion service coverage for nearly all patients across the United States needing treatment for complex and chronic conditions. Learn more at www.OptionCare.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006385/en/
For Option Care
Rachel Bowen, 312-558-1770
RBowen@pcipr.com
Source: Option Care Enterprises, Inc.