VISTA, Calif., Directed is pleased to announce it has acquired Alcohol Detection Systems (ADS), a leading provider of breathalyzer-based ignition interlock devices (IIDs). ADS provides IIDs under its Determinator® product line, which Directed will maintain moving forward.
Evolving state regulations that require IID devices in DUI and DWI remediation programs have propelled the growth of the IID market. A growing body of evidence shows that IIDs have a positive effect on reducing the incidence of drunk driving.
"Ignition interlock devices really do save lives, and the growth of the IID market has been driven by the major benefit they provide to society," said Directed CEO Bob Struble. "Directed and ADS share core technology, and we are confident that by bringing our leading product design, technical service, and distribution capabilities to the IID market, we will rapidly expand ADS's business. IIDs are primarily installed by mobile electronics retailers and auto service shops, and we are excited to bring this new business opportunity to our longstanding partners."
ADS Founder, Nick Cassiere commented, "We believe we have found an ideal partner in Directed. Directed's national distribution and service footprint will allow us to expand quickly. I'm enthusiastic to push forward with the Directed team and bring the important benefits of our products to more drivers."
ADS products are easy to install and use. During remediation programs, users have IIDs installed in their cars, and the devices ensure that the driver successfully passes a breathalyzer test before allowing the car to start. It is typical for IIDs to be recalibrated on a regular basis and then uninstalled upon program completion.
Directed is a division of DEI Holdings, a portfolio company of Boston-based private equity firm Charlesbank Capital Partners, LLC. Charlesbank acquired DEI Holdings in 2011. "We are pleased to support the expansion of Directed and to help bring together two complementary companies," said Ryan Carroll, a Charlesbank Managing Director. "We look forward to a successful integration building on the cultural similarities, talent, and best practices of these two companies and to a stronger future as one entity."
Any dealers interested in learning more should call 1-800-677-1361 or visit directed.com/ads/ .
Not a Directed Dealer? Please visit directed.com or call 1-800-876-0800 to become a Directed Dealer today!
About Directed
Directed is a world leader in automotive electronics, the largest North American designer and marketer of consumer-branded vehicle security and remote start systems, and a pioneer in the connected car space. Its products connect more consumers to their vehicles than anyone else on the planet. Directed markets its broad portfolio (sold under Viper®, Clifford®, Python®, Autostart®, Astrostart® and other brands) through leading national retailers and specialty chains. For more information contact Chris.Pearson@directed.com .
About ADS
Alcohol Detection Systems (ADS), based in Baltimore, Maryland, has been providing ignition interlock devices since 2002. An ignition interlock device is a breath alcohol analyzer connected to the ignition of a car. A vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device can only be driven when the driver passes the unit's breath alcohol tests. ADS is authorized to market IIDs in over twenty states across the country.
About Charlesbank Capital Partners
Based in Boston and New York, Charlesbank Capital Partners is a middle-market private equity investment firm managing more than $5 billion of capital. Charlesbank focuses on management-led buyouts and growth capital financings, generally investing in companies with enterprise values of $150 million to $1.5 billion, and also engages in opportunistic credit investments. The firm seeks to partner with strong management teams to build companies with sustainable competitive advantage and excellent prospects for growth. For more information, please visit www.charlesbank.com .
Disclaimer
Statements in this news release that are not statements of historical fact include forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are just predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties surrounding competitive and industry conditions, the ability to launch products on time and enable new features sets, market acceptance for the company's products, risks of litigation, technological changes, developing industry standards and other factors related to the company's businesses. The Company reserves all of its rights.
Media Contact
Chris Pearson
Directed
Chris.Pearson@directed.com
760-599-1346
 releases/directed-acquires-alcohol-detection-systems-300583375.html
SOURCE Directed Electronics