Top News 
Brexit Tensions Flare Up 
The European Union will reportedly demand today that the U.K. should apply EU laws in full during the Brexit transitional period. This comes as Prime Minister Theresa May is yet again facing factional fighting within her Conservative Party, with some suggesting she should describe her Brexit strategy more clearly or face a no-confidence vote. Financial Times 
Mueller Protection Split 
Congressional Republicans are split on whether there should be new legislation to protect special counsel Robert Mueller from being fired by President Donald Trump. Senators Lindsey Graham and Susan Collins favor a new law, but House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy says such a move would be unnecessary. Washington Post 
Alwaleed Freed 
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, arrested in November in the midst of a Saudi corruption crackdown, has described his arrest as a “misunderstanding” following his release Saturday. “Everything’s fine,” the billionaire said from the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Riyadh, where he had been detained along with many other prominent businessmen. He had not been tortured as was reported, he said. CNBC 
Biel Delays IPO 
Biel Crystal Manufactory, the biggest producer of smartphone touchscreens, is postponing its $1.5 billion IPO on the Hong Kong stock exchange. According to reports, Biel has not yet submitted an IPO application, so it’s unlikely that it will float in the second quarter as anticipated. South China Morning Post Around the Water Cooler 
Fitness Tracker Insecurity 
A fitness-tracking “heat map” published by app firm Strava appears to betray the locations of U.S. military personnel around the world. Although the map shows an overwhelming mess of activity from Fitbit users in developed areas, it gives away much more detailed information in places where only soldiers and aid workers are likely to be wearing fitness trackers. Fortune 
Intel’s Priorities 
Chipmaker Intel reportedly told Chinese technology companies, among others in a small group of customers, about critical security flaws in its processors before it informed U.S. authorities. The “Spectre” and “Meltdown” flaws allow for the exfiltration of sensitive data from desktop computers and potentially cloud servers, so the fear is that Chinese intelligence may have gotten a head start on their American counterparts in being able to exploit the flaws. Wall Street Journal 
Ikea Founder Dies 
Ingvar Kamprad, the founder of Swedish furniture behemoth Ikea, has died at the age of 91 following a short illness. Although he was the world’s eighth-richest person, Kamprad was known for his frugality—an ethos that translated into the company’s corporate culture . He was also a member of fascist organizations when younger, though he later regretted that element of his history. Bloomberg 
Fake Follower Probe 
A report into the activities of Devumi, a company that allegedly purloins real people’s identities in order to sell “fake followers” to celebrities and anyone else who’s willing to buy them, has resulted in an investigation by New York State attorney general Eric Schneiderman. The prosecutor says the company’s activities, as reported by The New York Times , constitute illegal “impersonation and deception,” while undermining democracy as well. BBC 
This edition of CEO Daily was edited by David Meyer . Find previous editions here , and sign up for other Fortune newsletters here . SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 