ALISO VIEJO, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Microsemi Corporation (Nasdaq: MSCC), a leading provider of semiconductor solutions differentiated by power, security, reliability and performance, will conduct its Fiscal First Quarter Earnings Conference Call with management to discuss results.
Date: Thursday, Jan. 25, 2018
Time: 4:45 p.m. EST (1:45 p.m. PST)
To access the webcast, log on to www.microsemi.com , go to the Investors section, and then to Events and Presentations. To listen to the live webcast, visit this website approximately 15 minutes prior to the start of the call to register and download/install any necessary audio software. For those unable to participate during the live webcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call on the Microsemi website for 90 days.
To participate in the conference call by telephone, call 877-264-1110 at approximately 4:30 p.m. EST (1:30 p.m. PST). International callers can call 706-634-1357. Please provide the following ID number: 5678358.
About Microsemi
Microsemi Corporation (Nasdaq: MSCC) offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace & defense, communications, data center and industrial markets. Products include high-performance and radiation-hardened analog mixed-signal integrated circuits, FPGAs, SoCs and ASICs; power management products; timing and synchronization devices and precise time solutions, setting the world's standard for time; voice processing devices; RF solutions; discrete components; enterprise storage and communication solutions, security technologies and scalable anti-tamper products; Ethernet solutions; Power-over-Ethernet ICs and midspans; as well as custom design capabilities and services. Microsemi is headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California and has approximately 4,800 employees globally. Learn more at www.microsemi.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/microsemi-announces-webcast-and-access-information-for-fiscal-first-quarter-earnings-conference-call-300581150.html
SOURCE Microsemi Corporation