NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cadre , an online real estate investment platform, today announced the hire of Gregory Rush as Managing Director and Partner on its Acquisitions Team. Mr. Rush will also join Cadre’s Investment Committee.
A real estate veteran with twenty five years of industry experience, Mr. Rush will be focused on continuing to scale the company’s investment capabilities. Mr. Rush’s hire follows a number of recent milestones for Cadre, including a $65MM company financing round led by Andreessen Horowitz, an ongoing partnership with Goldman Sachs that has to date closed on $250MM of commitments from Goldman’s private wealth clients, and reaching $1BN worth of transaction value closed on the Cadre platform.
“Greg brings extensive investment experience to Cadre, having structured and executed several billion dollars’ worth of transactions with leading real estate investment firms on a global basis,” said Ryan Williams, CEO and Co-Founder of Cadre. “He is a seminal addition to our company and Investment Committee and we’re thrilled to welcome him as we continue to build a world-class investment team.”
Previously, Mr. Rush served as Partner, Managing Director and investment committee member at Dune Real Estate Partners, where he sourced, executed and managed a portfolio of distressed, value-add, and opportunistic investments across multiple asset classes in the United States and Europe. Prior to joining Dune in 2005, Mr. Rush was an Executive Director in Morgan Stanley's Real Estate Investment Banking Group. Prior to that, he worked in the Real Estate Investment Banking department of Merrill Lynch and as a financial analyst at Vornado Realty Trust. Mr. Rush has also served on the Board of the Directors of NorthStar Realty Finance Corp (NYSE:NRF), a publicly-traded REIT. Mr. Rush received his M.B.A. from NYU’s Leonard N. Stern School of Business and his B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
About Cadre
Cadre is a technology-enabled real estate investment platform that provides qualified individuals and institutions access to fully vetted commercial real estate opportunities. Cadre enables investors to gain exposure to the asset class in a fee-efficient, transparent manner. Cadre has closed deals on its platform totaling approximately $1 billion in transaction value to date, and has raised more than $130MM in corporate funding from backers including Andreessen Horowitz, Goldman Sachs, Khosla Ventures, Ford Foundation, Thrive Capital, and General Catalyst. For more information, please visit Cadre.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005488/en/
The Hatch Agency
Judy Huang, 415-655-3015
cadre@thehatchagency.com
Source: Cadre