NEW YORK, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Attorney Advertising -- Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC notifies investors that a class action lawsuit has been filed against Vodafone Group Plc ("Vodafone" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: VOD) and certain of its officers, on behalf of shareholders who purchased Vodafone securities during the period between February 11, 2015 and January 11, 2018, both dates inclusive (the "Class Period"). Such investors are encouraged to join this case by visiting the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/vod .
This class action seeks to recover damages against Defendants for alleged violations of the federal securities laws under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The complaint alleges that throughout the Class Period, defendants made materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (1) Vodafone had contravened Australian law by permitting customers to purchase pre-paid mobile phones without first verifying their identities, and (2) consequently, Vodafone's public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times.
On January 10, 2018, post-market, the Australian Communications and Media Authority ("ACMA)" announced that an investigation into Vodafone Australia ("VHA") revealed that VHA had contravened Australian law by permitting customers to purchase pre-paid mobile phones without first verifying their identities. Specifically, an update to VHA's website allowed customers "to select that their identity had been verified in a store and then proceed to activate their service through use of the website" without confirming that the customers' identities had in fact been verified, as required by law. VHA has entered into an enforceable undertaking with ACMA to ensure that its identity checks are up to date. Following this news, Vodafone's American Depositary Receipt price has fallen sharply during intraday trading on January 11, 2018.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to review a copy of the Complaint you can visit the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/vod or you may contact Peretz Bronstein, Esq. or his Investor Relations Analyst, Yael Hurwitz of Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC at 212-697-6484. If you suffered a loss in Vodafone you can request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff.
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC is a corporate litigation boutique. Our primary expertise is the aggressive pursuit of litigation claims on behalf of our clients. In addition to representing institutions and other investor plaintiffs in class action security litigation, the firm's expertise includes general corporate and commercial litigation, as well as securities arbitration. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes.
Contact:
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC
Peretz Bronstein or Yael Hurwitz
212-697-6484 | info@bgandg.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shareholder-alert---bronstein-gewirtz--grossman-llc-notifies-investors-of-class-action-against-vodafone-group-plc-vod-300585371.html
SOURCE Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC