CHICAGO, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- McDonald Hopkins LLC today announced that Michael J. Hayes, Sr., a highly experienced litigator and regulatory attorney, has joined the firm's Litigation Department as of counsel in the Chicago office.
Hayes has practiced in the law firm environment focusing on litigation and government relations including multistate regulatory actions involving consumer, public utility and antitrust issues. His wide ranging litigation experience consists of suits for injunctive and declaratory relief; civil rights actions including Title VII employment discrimination matters; contract actions; construction litigation; constitutional and statutory challenges to State of Illinois statutes, rules and regulations; purchasing disputes; labor disputes and personnel matters; judicial review of administrative decisions; and matters related to state appropriations, regulation of healthcare and nonprofit entities.
Hayes devoted over 16 years of his legal career to the Illinois Attorney General's Office where he served in multiple positions including Deputy Attorney General. He represented public officials, employees and agencies of the State of Illinois involving state interests in litigation at all levels of the federal and Illinois court systems, and before quasi-judicial administrative bodies, such as the American Arbitration Association.
For more than 20 years, Hayes worked in private practice with large law firms in Chicago. He has represented clients in cases presented before the United States Supreme Court, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the Illinois Supreme Court, and Appellate Courts of Illinois.
Prior to practicing law, Hayes was employed as a teacher, coach and athletic director for a school in the Archdiocese of Chicago for eight years.
"It is a pleasure to welcome Michael to our firm," said David A. Agay, managing member of the Chicago office. "His reputation and devotion to our legal community are impressive. Michael is an excellent role model and litigator who further strengthens our litigation and government regulatory teams."
Hayes currently serves as general counsel for the City Club of Chicago. He is a member of the Fenwick Bar Association and a past multi-term president of the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Chicago. He is a past chairman of the Chicago Chapter of the National Conference for Community and Justice.
Hayes earned his J.D., cum laude, from DePaul University School of Law in 1974 and received a B.A. in political science in 1968 from Loyola University.
He can be reached at mhayes@mcdonaldhopkins.com or 312.642.6151.
About McDonald Hopkins
Founded in 1930, McDonald Hopkins is a business advisory and advocacy law firm with locations in Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Miami, and West Palm Beach. The firm's Chicago office opened in 2007 and is located in the 300 North LaSalle building on the Chicago River. For more information about McDonald Hopkins, visit mcdonaldhopkins.com .
CONTACT:
Deborah W. Kelm
McDonald Hopkins LLC
600 Superior Avenue, East, Suite 2100
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Phone: 216.348.5733
Email: dkelm@mcdonaldhopkins.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/distinguished-attorney-michael-j-hayes-sr-joins-mcdonald-hopkins-300579984.html
SOURCE McDonald Hopkins LLC