CHARLES TOWN, W.Va., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- American Public Education, Inc. (NASDAQ: APEI) – parent company of online learning provider American Public University System and campus-based Hondros College of Nursing – plans to release fourth quarter and full year 2017 results after the close of U.S. financial markets on February 27, 2018.
The live webcast of its fourth quarter and full year 2017 earnings conference call will be broadcast at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday, February 27, 2018. This call will be open to listeners through the webcast section of the company's investor relations website, www.AmericanPublicEducation.com . A replay of the live webcast will also be available starting approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live conference call. The replay will be archived and available to listeners for one year.
Webcast: https://edge.media-server.com/m6/p/83it62sg
About American Public Education
American Public Education, Inc. (NASDAQ: APEI) is a provider of higher learning dedicated to preparing students all over the world for excellence in service, leadership and achievement. The Company offers respected, innovative and affordable academic programs and services to students, universities and partner organizations through wholly owned subsidiaries: American Public University System (APUS) and National Education Seminars Inc., which we refer to as Hondros College of Nursing . Together, these institutions serve more than 85,000 adult learners worldwide and offer more than 200 degree and certificate programs in fields ranging from homeland security, military studies, intelligence, and criminal justice to technology, business administration, public health, nursing and liberal arts. For additional information, please visit www.apei.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/american-public-education-to-webcast-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-results-conference-call-300580081.html
SOURCE American Public Education, Inc.