NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Boards of the three Neuberger Berman Closed-End Intermediate Municipal Funds have declared monthly distributions for the dates below. The Funds seek to provide income that is exempt from regular federal income tax. Additionally, Neuberger Berman California Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc. seeks to provide income that is exempt from California personal income tax and Neuberger Berman New York Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc. seeks to provide income that is exempt from New York State and New York City personal income tax. Distributions of the Funds may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax for some stockholders. Each Fund's distribution announced today is payable on February 15, 2018, has a record date of January 31, 2018 and an ex-date of January 30, 2018.
The Funds will make the distributions described above in the following per share amounts:
NBH
Neuberger Berman Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc.
$0.0675
NBW
Neuberger Berman California Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc.
$0.0512
NBO
Neuberger Berman New York Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc.
$0.0437
In compliance with Section 19 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, a notice would accompany any distribution that does not consist solely of net investment income. This notice would be for informational purposes, and would disclose, among other things, estimated portions of the distribution, if any, consisting of net investment income, capital gains and return of capital.
About Neuberger Berman
Neuberger Berman, founded in 1939, is a private, independent, employee-owned investment manager. The firm manages a range of strategies—including equity, fixed income, quantitative and multi-asset class, private equity and hedge funds—on behalf of institutions, advisors and individual investors globally. With offices in 19 countries, Neuberger Berman's team is approximately 1,900 professionals, as of September 30, 2017. For five consecutive years, the company has been named to Pensions & Investments Best Places to Work in Money Management survey (among those with 1,000 employees or more). Tenured, stable and long-term in focus, the firm fosters an investment culture of fundamental research and independent thinking. It manages $284 billion in client assets as of September 30, 2017. For more information, please visit our website at www.nb.com .
Statements made in this release that look forward in time involve risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the adverse effect from a decline in the securities markets or a decline in the Fund's performance, a general downturn in the economy, competition from other closed end investment companies, changes in government policy or regulation, inability of the Fund's investment adviser to attract or retain key employees, inability of the Fund to implement its investment strategy, inability of the Fund to manage rapid expansion and unforeseen costs and other effects related to legal proceedings or investigations of governmental and self-regulatory organizations.
Contact:
Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC
Investor Information
(877) 461-1899
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/neuberger-berman-closed-end-intermediate-municipal-funds-announce-monthly-distributions-300583482.html
SOURCE Neuberger Berman