ATLANTA and AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Rimidi, a digital health company that provides software and clinical analytics for chronic disease management, today announced that it has appointed Austin-based Josh Claman as president and chief executive officer effective January 8, 2018. Dr. Lucienne M. Ide, Rimidi's co-founder and current CEO, will continue to serve as chairman of Rimidi's board of directors.
"Josh is going to take Rimidi to the next level," said Ide. "He has a stellar leadership reputation and brings a wealth of functional experiences, ranging from leading services, consulting, sales, marketing, and operational organizations." Continued Ide, "He is the right person to lead Rimidi to the next stage of growth."
Josh Claman has over 25 years leading technology businesses in Asia, Europe and the Americas. His industry experiences span his time in Dell, managing multi-billion-dollar business units, to his role as President of Reach Local, one of the largest advertising technology companies in the US. Most recently, he held the role of Chief Business Officer of Stratasys, a leader in 3D printing, where he drove their healthcare business.
"I'm incredibly excited to join the Rimidi team," says Claman. "Rimidi is transforming the delivery of healthcare for individuals with chronic conditions and the healthcare providers who serve them. I have always been a strong advocate for the promise of technology, and know that Rimidi is going to play an important role in the digital revolution in healthcare." Rimidi will be co-located in Atlanta and Austin, with the opening of its Austin office later this year.
Dr. Lucienne Ide will remain actively involved in the company as chairman of the board of directors. She will continue to provide long-term strategy, oversee clinical product development, and lead innovation initiatives. Ide has served as Rimidi's president and CEO for the past 6 years and is a thought leader in healthcare technology.
About Diabetes
Approximately 30 million Americans and an estimated 425 million adults worldwide have diabetes. Type 2 diabetes, the most common type, accounts for 90-95 percent of all diabetes cases in the United States.
About Rimidi
Rimidi is an Atlanta-based, digital health company bringing to market data analytics and disease management solutions. Its flagship product, Diabetes+Me™, is a software solution focused on empowering quality diabetes care for healthcare organizations, providers, and people living with diabetes. For more information, visit Rimidi-Serious Hope for Healthcare
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rimidi-appoints-josh-claman-as-chief-executive-officer-300580030.html
SOURCE Rimidi