TORONTO, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Leading global commercial real estate services firm Colliers International Group Inc. (NASDAQ:CIGI) (TSX:CIGI) today announced that Rebecca Finley has joined the company as Senior Vice President, Brand & People. In this new role, Rebecca will have responsibility for leading and providing global oversight for the Colliers brand and people strategies.
“Colliers has grown significantly over the past few years while maintaining a relentless focus on serving its clients and professionals at the highest levels,” said Jay S. Hennick, Chairman & CEO. “Attracting a high calibre and experienced professional like Rebecca is further evidence of our commitment to realizing the Colliers difference through innovative brand, digital and media strategies while further advancing our people-related performance management and productivity tools to better serve our clients.”
Rebecca has extensive leadership experience in branding, culture and business operations most recently at Facebook & Instagram Canada where she served as Business Lead and Head of Technology, Telecommunications & Media. Prior roles included increasingly senior positions at Maple Leaf Foods and Boston Consulting Group. Rebecca holds an MBA from the Rotman School of Management in Toronto, as well as Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Science in Mathematics degrees from Queens University.
“I am extremely excited to join Colliers International and become part of its experienced and highly successful executive team at a key time in the history of the Company,” said Rebecca Finley. “Colliers reputation for delivering value to clients is second-to-none and I look forward to ensuring that the Colliers brand effectively communicates with the most highly engaged professionals and clients in our industry. Ultimately, it was the enterprising culture and unlimited growth opportunity at Colliers that really made the difference for me.”
About Colliers International Group Inc.
Colliers International Group Inc. (NASDAQ:CIGI) (TSX:CIGI) is an industry leading global real estate services company with 15,000 skilled professionals operating in 68 countries. With an enterprising culture and significant employee ownership, Colliers professionals provide a full range of services to real estate occupiers, owners and investors worldwide. Services include strategic advice and execution for property sales, leasing and finance; global corporate solutions; property, facility and project management; workplace solutions; appraisal, valuation and tax consulting; customized research; and thought leadership consulting.
Colliers professionals think differently, share great ideas and offer thoughtful and innovative advice that helps clients accelerate their success. Colliers has been ranked among the top 100 global outsourcing firms by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals for 12 consecutive years, more than any other real estate services firm. Colliers also has been ranked the top property manager in the world by Commercial Property Executive for two years in a row.
For the latest news from Colliers, visit Colliers.com or follow us on Twitter (@Colliers) and LinkedIn .
COLLIERS CONTACTS:
Jay Hennick
Chairman & CEO
(416) 906-9500
John Friedrichsen
Chief Financial Officer
(416) 960-9500
Source:Colliers International Group Inc.