SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) will report its fiscal first quarter 2018 financial results on Thursday, February 1, 2018. The results, along with accompanying financial information, will be released after market close and posted on the Visa Investor Relations website.
As a reminder, Visa will no longer publish its financial results over a news wire service. Instead, the results will only be posted on the Investor Relations website http://investor.visa.com . The company will issue an alert over a news wire to indicate the earnings materials are publicly available, including a link to those documents.
Visa’s executive management team will then host a live audio webcast beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time) to discuss financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at http://investor.visa.com . A replay of the webcast will be available on Visa’s Investor Relations website for 30 days.
Visa is currently in its customary “quiet period" during which time company executives will not be interacting with the investment community. This quiet period will be in place until fiscal first quarter 2018 earnings are released on February 1, 2018.
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) is the world’s leader in digital payments. Our mission is to connect the world through the most innovative, reliable and secure payment network - enabling individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Our advanced global processing network, VisaNet, provides secure and reliable payments around the world, and is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second. The company’s relentless focus on innovation is a catalyst for the rapid growth of connected commerce on any device, and a driving force behind the dream of a cashless future for everyone, everywhere. As the world moves from analog to digital, Visa is applying our brand, products, people, network and scale to reshape the future of commerce. For more information, visit usa.visa.com/aboutvisa , visacorporate.tumblr.com and @VisaNews .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005019/en/
Visa Inc.
Investor Relations:
Patrick Laney, 650-432-7644
ir@visa.com
or
Media Relations: Nathaniel Sillin
415-805-4892
globalmedia@visa.com
Source: Visa Inc.