REDWOOD CITY, Calif. and BRUSSELS, Belgium, Selligent, a provider of relationship marketing SaaS solutions based on consumer insights, today announced that Chris Botting has joined the company as Chief Operating Officer (COO). Botting will spearhead Selligent’s product, operations, engineering, and IT teams as Selligent takes on the market’s disjointed marketing cloud platforms with a more powerful, natively integrated offering. Botting brings hands-on product and business leadership experience to the executive team, which has recently added several seasoned Silicon Valley executives.
Selligent announces Chris Botting has been hired as COO.
“Selligent is perfectly poised for massive growth in North America and Europe, as brands look for a more flexible marketing automation approach that can help them meet increasingly sophisticated consumer demands,” said Botting. “I’m excited to lead the teams that will be responsible for delivering the strategy and solutions to serve our clients’ needs both in the present and future.”
Botting joins Selligent with a successful track record of agile product development and business operations in large, fast-growing software businesses. He has built a reputation for driving high levels of profitable growth through a strong focus on customer and partner success. Prior to joining Selligent, Botting was General Manager – Customer Care Technology Group at Cisco. As a P&L owner and Customer Success leader, he delivered over $1B of product revenues and was responsible for successfully transitioning the product business and portfolio to the cloud. Before joining Cisco in 2000, Botting was a VP and Founder at PakNetX, a high-growth startup which was successfully acquired. He also led marketing and product teams at Ericsson, and Multilink, and held product and engineering roles at Nortel early in his career. Chris holds an MBA from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University and has a Masters in Electrical and Computer Engineering from NC State University.
“Chris’ agile product and leadership experience makes him a fantastic addition to the Selligent executive team,” said Selligent CEO John Hernandez. “Chris and I have worked together in several high-growth situations at major Silicon Valley companies over the years, most recently at Cisco where we drove tremendous growth for the Customer Care Technology Group. I’m excited to reunite with Chris and harness his skills and experience to create further customer-focused success.”
About Selligent
Selligent’s omnichannel marketing platform empowers marketers to engage with consumers using relevant insights. Our technology was built to support our Consumer-First Marketing philosophy, which makes consumer needs the trigger for all brand actions. With Selligent, B2C brands can bridge the gap between big data and real-time campaign execution, creating valuable interactions across channels that become more relevant over time.
More than 700 brands across retail, travel, automotive, publishing, and financial services rely on Selligent’s proven platform, including InterContinental Hotels Group and ING. With 10 offices across the United States and Europe and more than 50 agency partners and resellers, Selligent serves over 30 countries with local, personalized service.
Learn more at www.selligent.com and connect with the team at Twitter , LinkedIn , and our blog .
Contact
Emily Riley
WIT Strategy
(914) 330-1128
eriley[at] witstrategy.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/f741478f-8117-449b-a8a4-23be968ccce1
Source: Selligent