MILWAUKEE, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- MGIC Investment Corporation (NYSE: MTG) today announced that Melissa Lora has been elected to the Board of Directors for MGIC Investment Corporation and its principal subsidiary, Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation (MGIC). She will be a member of the Risk Management and Audit Committees.
"We are excited about Melissa's addition to the board," said Curt Culver, MGIC Investment's chairman. "Her substantial executive management, financial and marketing experience makes her a natural fit and we look forward to her contributions."
Melissa Lora, since 2013, has been President of Taco Bell International, a segment of Taco Bell Corp., which is a subsidiary of Yum! Brands, Inc., one of the world's largest restaurant companies. Ms. Lora served in various roles at Taco Bell Corp., including Global Chief Financial and Development Officer (2012-2013), Chief Financial and Development Officer (2006-2012) and Chief Financial Officer (2001-2006). Ms. Lora will be retiring from Taco Bell Corp. in the summer of 2018. Since 2016 Ms. Lora has served as Lead Independent Director and chairs the Audit Committee for KB Home.
About MGIC
MGIC ( www.mgic.com ), the principal subsidiary of MGIC Investment Corporation, serves lenders throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and other locations helping families achieve homeownership sooner by making affordable low-down-payment mortgages a reality. At December 31, 2017, MGIC had $194.9 billion of primary insurance in force covering approximately one million mortgages.
From time to time MGIC Investment Corporation releases important information via postings on its corporate website without making any other disclosure and intends to continue to do so in the future. Investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information can be found at https://mtg.mgic.com under "Newsroom."
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lora-joins-mgic-investment-board-300587582.html
SOURCE MGIC Investment Corporation