CERRITOS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- First Choice Bancorp (OTCQX: FCBP) announced today the appointment of Lorraine Lee as the Chief Strategy Officer for First Choice Bank (the “Bank”), reporting to President & CEO Robert Franko.
Ms. Lee has an extensive career in the financial services industry and since 2014 has served as First Vice President/Relationship Manager in the Commercial Lending Division for First Choice Bank. Lorraine holds an MBA with concentrations in Marketing and International Business from Santa Clara University and is an Economics and Computer Science graduate of UC Berkley.
Mr. Franko said, “I have worked with Lorraine for many years, both here at First Choice Bank and at Beach Business Bank before that. Her dedication and wisdom make her especially suited for this critical role in our Bank with all of the exciting developments we have underway. Lorraine has been an integral part of the Bank’s Lending and Credit Administration departments and we are extremely pleased to have such a talented internal candidate to promote to this key position.”
Peter Hui, the Founding Chairman of First Choice Bank, added, “Ms. Lee’s promotion acknowledges her dedication to the Bank, her co-workers and our clients. The Board is thrilled to recognize her contributions and commitment to First Choice Bank.”
Ms. Lee was honored to receive the promotion and stated, “I am excited to have the opportunity to work with everyone on key functions and initiatives that will support our continued growth. I am privileged to be part of the First Choice Bank team and am looking forward to many great years to come.”
ABOUT FIRST CHOICE BANCORP
First Choice Bancorp is the registered bank holding company for First Choice Bank. First Choice Bank, headquartered in Cerritos, California is a community-focused financial institution, serving diverse consumers and commercial clients and specializing in loans to small businesses, Private Banking clients, Commercial and Industrial (C&I) loans, and commercial real estate loans with a niche in providing finance for the hospitality industry. The Bank is a Preferred Small Business Administration (SBA) Lender. Founded in 2005, First Choice Bank has quickly become a leading provider of financial services that enable our customers to grow, maintain strength, and achieve their business objectives. We strive to surpass our clients’ expectations through our efficiency and professionalism and are committed to being “First in Speed, Service, and Solutions.” First Choice Bancorp stock is traded on the Over the Counter (OTCQX); our Ticker Symbol is FCBP.
The Bank’s web site is www.FirstChoiceBankCA.com .
Forward Looking Statements
Except for the historical information in this news release, the matters described herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include: the credit risks of lending activities, including changes in the level and trend of loan delinquencies and charge-offs, results of examinations by our banking regulators, our ability to maintain adequate levels of capital and liquidity, our ability to manage loan delinquency rates, our ability to price deposits to retain existing customers and achieve low-cost deposit growth, manage expenses and lower the efficiency ratio, expand or maintain the net interest margin, mitigate interest rate risk for changes in the interest rate environment, competitive pressures in the banking industry, access to available sources of credit to manage liquidity, the local and national economic environment, and other risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release. First Choice Bank and First Choice Bancorp undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Investors are encouraged to read the First Choice Bank and First Choice Bancorp financial information which is available on our website.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005317/en/
First Choice Bank
Robert M. Franko, 562.345.9241
President & Chief Executive Officer
or
Yvonne L. Chen, 562.345.9244
Chief Financial Officer
Source: First Choice Bank