OOSTBURG, Wis., Dutchland Plastics, LLC ("Dutchland" or the "Company"), a contract manufacturer of custom rotationally molded ("rotomolded") plastics products, announced the appointment of Randy G. Herman as chief executive officer. This follows a decision by Mr. Clyde Swoger to transition from CEO to a newly created position of executive vice president of business development, a vital role for the Company as it seeks to expand its business and accelerate its go-to-market strategy.
Mr. Herman is a seasoned operations executive with over 20 years of extensive leadership experience in the plastics industry. He most recently served as the president of Bemis Manufacturing's Advanced Technology Group (Sheboygan Falls, WI) for 11 years. Prior to that, he served as president of G.I. Plastek (Newburyport, MA) for four years, president of McKechnie Plastic Components (Easley, SC) for six years and president of McKechnie Plastic Components (Minneapolis, MN) for two years.
"I am honored to step in and lead this great American company," said Mr. Herman. "Dutchland is at the forefront of the rotomolding industry with its exceptional workforce, craftsmanship, and outstanding reputation for product quality and customer service. As CEO, I will focus on servicing our customer base, increasing operational scale and efficiency, and seeing the company become the leading rotational molder in the United States."
"I am excited for this new opportunity to take a leadership role in such a critical part of our strategic plan," said Mr. Swoger. "It is essential that we grow our footprint and capacity to meet our customers' long terms needs, and I have no doubt that there are many great companies within the rotational molding industry that would benefit from becoming part of the Dutchland family."
Dutchland, which manufactures cutting-edge products like Yeti coolers, NuCanoe boats, and KI chairs, among others, is the third largest contract rotational molder in the United States. Dutchland molds its products in two modern, state-of-the-art rotomolding facilities, totaling approximately 200,000 sq. ft., and performs an entire suite of value-added services including foaming, drilling, finishing, assembly, inspection, warehousing, and logistics. The Company's manufacturing is highly differentiated with the capability to mold small, medium, and large size parts with complex geometries and tight tolerances, using a broad range of raw materials. The Company has more than doubled in revenue over the last three years and is poised to double again in the next three years. Dutchland is a three-time Association of Rotational Molders Product of the Year Winner (2014, 2015 and 2016).
"The Board of Directors is excited about the opportunities we see to selectively add new customers, increase our geographic footprint and workforce, and invest additional capital to fuel our expansion and continually improve operations," said Peter Kirchof, chairman of the Dutchland Board. "Under Randy's leadership as CEO and with Clyde's business development acumen, we are confident that this already strong and disciplined industry leader will push the envelope even further, ensuring quality, delivering great customer service, and driving innovation at every turn."
About Dutchland Plastics
Dutchland Plastics has been manufacturing high quality plastics products for half a century at its state-of-the-art facilities. Learn more at: https://www.dutchland.com/
 releases/dutchland-plastics-announces-executive-leadership-change-300586418.html
SOURCE Dutchland Plastics, LLC