DALLAS, The American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ABOG) announced the names of the individuals elected to officer-elect positions for its Board of Directors, as well as new Division Chairs and Members. Their terms begin July 1, 2018. The newly elected positions are as follows:
Board of Directors
President-Elect: Andrew J. Satin, M.D.
Dr. Dorothy Edwards Professor and
Director (Chair) of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Obstetrician/Gynecologist-in-Chief
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
Term: 4 years
Vice-President-Elect: Anita K. Blanchard, M.D.
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education
University of Chicago Medicine
Term: 2 years
Treasurer-Elect: Laurel W. Rice, M.D.
Chair, Obstetrics and Gynecology Department
Ben Miller Peckham, MD, PhD, Distinguished Professor and Chair
University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health
Term: 4 years
Immediate Past President: Deborah A. Driscoll, M.D.
Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Luigi Mastroianni, Jr. Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Professor of Genetics
Professor of Pediatrics
The University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine
Term: 2 years
Subspecialty Divisions
Division Chairs serve a term of 3 years that includes membership on the Board of Directors representing the subspecialty Division. Division members serve a term of 1 year and may be reelected for up to six consecutive terms.
Female Pelvic Medicine and Reproductive Surgery:
Division Chair-Elect and ex-officio member of ABOG Board of Directors: Marlene M. Corton, M.D., MSCS
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
UT Southwestern Medical School
Division Member-Elect: Matthew D. Barber, M.D., MHS
Professor and Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Duke University School of Medicine
Gynecologic Oncology:
Division Chair-Elect and ex-officio member of the Board of Directors: Fidel A. Valea, M.D.
Professor and Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine
Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility:
Division Member-Elect: Emily S. Jungheim, M.D., MSCI
Associate Professor, Obstetrics and Gynecology
REI Fellowship Program Director
Washington University School of Medicine
About ABOG
The American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ABOG) is an independent, non-profit organization that certifies obstetricians and gynecologists in the United States. Founded in 1930, ABOG is one of 24 specialty Boards recognized by the American Board of Medical Specialties. Based in Dallas, ABOG serves candidates and diplomates in the United States and Canada in the specialty of obstetrics and gynecology, plus several subspecialties, including Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility; Maternal-Fetal Medicine; Gynecologic Oncology; and Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. ABOG also offers a continuous certification (Maintenance of Certification) program.
 releases/abog-announces-names-of-new-board-officer-elects-plus-division-chairs-and-members-300588814.html
SOURCE American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology