BROOMFIELD, Colo., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Alticast today announced Jae Park has been named President and General Manager of Alticast Americas, overseeing operations, sales and business development efforts in North and South America.
Park, a veteran of Alticast for over 15 years, previously held the role of Vice President of Business Development for Alticast US for the past two years. During that time, Park played a key role in driving the execution of multi-year, multi-million dollar agreements with several Tier 1 cable system operators in North America, including the successful delivery of Videotron's award-winning illico 2 video service, as well as other large-scale projects with top US and Canadian MSOs.
"Jae brings an impressive track record of strategic, operational and sales development to this position. He is proven to be a successful and trusted leader through his ability to foster and grow relationships with his team members and customers. He will be instrumental in leading our business efforts in the North and Latin American markets to help grow our footprint while continuing to meet the needs of our customers," Mansoo Han, CEO of Alticast said. "Jae represents the next generation of leadership for Alticast."
"I'm extremely excited to take on the challenge of continuing Alticast's growth and evolution in this dynamic industry," Park said. "Our current product offerings, coupled with new, innovative technology solutions, and our diverse employee expertise, will not only help our customers evolve quickly to market conditions, but will help accelerate our growth by introducing us to a whole new customer base."
About Alticast
Alticast develops multi-screen solutions that enable service providers to quickly and reliably deliver innovative TV experiences to every customer. Alticast's STB software, CAS/DRM, Smart UI/UX and Cloud Server solutions are based on non-proprietary software such as HTML5, RDK and GEM. The most deployed digital television provider, Alticast securely brings compelling personalized and interactive content to more than 50 million devices via broadcast, broadband and mobile platforms. The publicly traded company is headquartered in Seoul, South Korea with major offices in Amsterdam, Netherlands; Broomfield, Colorado; and Hanoi, Vietnam. For more information, and to read Alticast's blog, visit www.alticast.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jae-park-named-president-and-general-manager-of-alticast-americas-300582830.html
SOURCE Alticast