HOUSTON, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Quintana Energy Services Inc. (NYSE: QES) ("QES" or the "Company") announced today that it has launched an initial public offering of its common stock (the "Offering") pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Offering consists of 9,259,259 shares of common stock being offered by QES. In addition, certain selling stockholders intend to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 1,388,889 shares of common stock at the initial public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The current expected initial offering price is between $12.00 and $15.00 per share. The shares have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "QES," subject to official notice of issuance.
BofA Merrill Lynch and Simmons & Company International, Energy Specialists of Piper Jaffray are acting as joint book-running managers and representatives of the underwriters for the Offering. Citigroup, Barclays, Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. and Evercore ISI are also acting as bookrunners for the Offering. Stephens Inc. and Capital One Securities are acting as co-managers for the Offering. The Offering will be made only by means of a prospectus that meets the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from:
BofA Merrill Lynch
NC1-004-03-43, 200
200 North College Street, 3rd Floor
Charlotte, NC 28255-0001
Attention: Prospectus Department
dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com
Piper Jaffray & Co.
800 Nicollet Mall, Suite 800
Minneapolis, MN 55402
Attention: Prospectus Department
(800) 747-3924
www.prospectuspjc.com
About Quintana Energy Services Inc.
QES is a growth-oriented provider of diversified oilfield services to leading onshore oil and natural gas exploration and production companies operating in both conventional and unconventional plays in all of the active major basins throughout the U.S. QES's primary services include: directional drilling, pressure pumping, pressure control and wireline services. The Company offers a complementary suite of products and services to a broad customer base that is supported by in-house manufacturing, repair and maintenance capabilities.
Important Information
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. The registration statement may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov under "Quintana Energy Services Inc." This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the size, timing or results of the Offering, represent QES's expectations or beliefs concerning future events, and it is possible that the results described in this press release will not be achieved. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of QES's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and, except as required by law, QES does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for QES to predict all such factors. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in the prospectus filed with the SEC in connection with the Offering. The risk factors and other factors noted in QES's prospectus could cause its actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Contacts:
Quintana Energy Services
Keefer M. Lehner
EVP, Chief Financial Officer
832-518-4094
ir@quintanaenergyservices.com
Dennard Lascar Investor Relations
Ken Dennard / Natalie Hairston
713-529-6600
QES@dennardlascar.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/quintana-energy-services-inc-announces-launch-of-initial-public-offering-300589522.html
SOURCE Quintana Energy Services Inc.