AVENTURA, Florida, January 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
AllStar Health Brands Inc. (OTC Markets: ALST) a specialty pharmaceutical and nutritional supplements company is pleased to announce Management has finalized the terms for the acquisition of a revenue-producing natural health products and supplements distribution business based out of South Florida. Final Due Diligence has begun and this acquisition is expected to close over the next 30-60 days.
A definitive Agreement based on the terms of the negotiated LOI (Letter of Intent) shall be executed upon completion of Due Diligence.
"AllStar is extremely pleased with this pending acquisition, and with the LOI in place, AllStar is already moving forward in planning efficiencies of scale between the two companies. Our goal is to reduce costs and increase both revenues and profit margins over the coming months, aided by the addition of higher-margin product offerings and new distribution channels," Quote: d Dr. Daniel Bagi CEO of AllStar. "Further product additions are already planned to add to the product line currently in place, helping fuel the expected sales growth."
About AllStar Health Brands Inc.:
AllStar Health Brands Inc. is a Nevada Corporation established in 2017, and headquartered in Aventura, Florida. AllStar is a specialty Health Care Products Company dedicated to improving health and quality of life by offering select, nutritional supplements over the counter remedies and medicines all across the Americas and Europe. AllStar's goal is to bring additional products to the market and provide new, innovative options for better health.
For more information, please contact Investor Relations at (786) 631 7477.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements about the Company's future expectations and all other statements in this press release other than historical facts, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.
The above information contains information relating to the Company that is based on the beliefs of the Company and/or its management, as well as assumptions made by any information currently available to the Company or its management. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company regarding future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks and uncertainties noted. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or projected. In each instance, forward-looking information should be considered in light of the accompanying meaningful cautionary statements herein. Factors that could cause results to differ include, but are not limited to, successful performance of internal plans, the impact of competitive services and pricing and general economic risks and uncertainties.
For more information
+1-(786)-631-7477
SOURCE AllStar Health Brands Inc