WASHINGTON, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Calvert Research and Management (Calvert), a subsidiary of Eaton Vance Corp. (Eaton Vance), announced today that Anne L. Richardson, has joined the firm as Chief Operating Officer, a newly created role based in Washington, D.C. She reports to John H. Streur, President and Chief Executive Officer.
In her role as Chief Operating Officer, Ms. Richardson oversees Calvert's day-to-day business operations, infrastructure and supporting activities. She assists with the ongoing development and management of Calvert's responsible investing research systems and processes, and their application to the global capital markets. Anne's role also includes creating new strategies and services and client development activities. She works closely with business groups across Eaton Vance to develop and implement Calvert's operating procedures and workflow.
"We are excited to welcome Anne to Calvert," said Mr. Streur. "She is an accomplished leader who will make significant contributions to Calvert's innovative research processes, intellectual capital and our strategic plan for sustained, long-term growth of Calvert's business."
Ms. Richardson joins Calvert from Cambridge Associates, where she was Chief Operating Officer, Global Investment Research. She was previously associated with The Brookings Institution and The George Washington University. She earned a B.A. in Environmental Policy & Analysis from Bowling Green State University and an M.A. in International Relations from the Maxwell School at Syracuse University.
About Calvert Research and Management
Calvert Research and Management is a leader in Responsible Investing, with approximately $12.9 billion of mutual fund and separate account assets under management as of October 31, 2017. The company traces its roots to Calvert Investments, which was founded in 1976 and in 1982 became the first fund family to launch a mutual fund to avoid investment in companies doing business in apartheid-era South Africa. Today, the Calvert Funds are one of the largest and most diversified families of responsibly invested mutual funds, encompassing actively and passively managed U.S. and international equity, income and asset allocation funds. For more information, visit calvert.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/anne-l-richardson-joins-calvert-as-chief-operating-officer-300576137.html
SOURCE Calvert Research and Management