DALLAS, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) will host a live webcast of its fourth quarter and full-year 2017 earnings conference call on February 26 at 9 a.m. Eastern Time. Management will discuss the financial results, as well as comment on the forward outlook. The webcast is expected to last approximately one hour and will be accessible by visiting http://www.deanfoods.com/our-company/investor-relations/ and by clicking on "Webcasts."
The webcast will be accessible on most operating systems and browsers. A webcast replay will be available for approximately 45 days following the event within the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site.
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods ® is a leading food and beverage company and the largest processor and direct-to-store distributor of fluid milk and other dairy and dairy case products in the United States. Headquartered in Dallas, Texas, the Dean Foods portfolio includes DairyPure ® , the country's first and largest fresh, white milk national brand, and TruMoo®, the leading national flavored milk brand, along with well-known regional dairy brands such as Alta Dena ® , Berkeley Farms ® , Country Fresh ® , Dean's ® , Garelick Farms ® , Friendly's ® , LAND O LAKES ®* milk and cultured products*, Lehigh Valley Dairy Farms ® , Mayfield ® , McArthur ® , Meadow Gold ® , Oak Farms ® , PET ® **, T.G. Lee ® , Tuscan ® and more. In all, Dean Foods has more than 50 local and regional dairy brands and private labels. Dean Foods also makes and distributes ice cream, cultured products, juices, teas, and bottled water. More than 16,000 employees across the country work every day to make Dean Foods the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome, great-tasting dairy products at every occasion. For more information about Dean Foods and its brands, visit www.deanfoods.com .
*The LAND O LAKES brand is owned by Land O'Lakes, Inc. and is used by license.
**PET is a trademark used by license.
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Jamaison Schuler, +1 214-721-7766; or Investor Relations, Sherri Baker, +1-214-303-3438
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dean-foods-company-announces-upcoming-webcast-of-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-conference-call-300586990.html
SOURCE Dean Foods Company