Bezsonoff will lead all registry and domain name processes to help brands navigate the complexities of an evolving digital world
STERLING, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Neustar , Inc., a trusted, neutral provider of real-time information services, today announced Nicolai Bezsonoff will now lead the Registry Solutions business as VP and General Manager. Bezsonoff will transition from his current role of VP and GM of Security Solutions to focus on supporting the world’s largest core registry and digital naming service.
Bezsonoff has an extensive background in technology and registry operations, having previously held the position of co-founder and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the .CO domain administrator, which was acquired by Neustar in 2014 . Under his tenure .CO had incredible growth and became one of the most successful domain extensions in history, with more than 2.2 million domain names registered by people in 200 countries. He has more than 20 years of experience running businesses and consulting on functions ranging from strategy, finance, product, technology and sales.
“Nicolai has shown incredible leadership and insight shaping our growing cybersecurity business to meet the needs of our customers,” said Venkat Achanta, Chief Data Officer and SVP, Internet Addressing Solutions. “Combining his expertise of the business, and knowledge from his previous role at .CO, is a natural fit to broadening our capabilities and shows our dedication to innovation and strengthening the evolution of the domain name space.”
“I’m excited to continue this journey with Neustar and take on a more active role leading passionate teams dedicated to delivering digital naming services that are second to none,” added Nicolai Bezsonoff. “Working for an industry pioneer that continues to be at the forefront of the domain name industry provides an undeniable platform to raise the bar even higher on creativity, increased engagement and deeper insight for innovative brands.”
About Neustar
Neustar, Inc. (“Neustar”) is a leading global information services provider driving the connected world forward with trusted, holistic identity resolution. As the only company capable of understanding who is on the other end of every interaction, Neustar is trusted by the world’s great brands to grow and guard their businesses with the most complete knowledge of how to connect people, places and things. The combination of Neustar’s unique, accurate, and real-time identity system and our cloud-based workflow solutions empower our clients to make actionable, precise and valuable decisions across marketing, risk, IT/security, network & operations departments. As the sole provider of the U.S. Number Portability Administration Center (“NPAC”), Neustar also facilitates the routing of all telephone call and text messages in the U.S. More information is available at https://www.home.neustar .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005374/en/
Neustar Media
Carolin Bachmann, 415-312-2100
Carolin.bachmann@home.neustar
Source: Neustar, Inc.