LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Korn Ferry (NYSE:KFY) today announced that Dan Kaplan has joined the firm’s CHRO practice. He will be based in the New York office.
Mr. Kaplan brings over 20 years of expertise in leadership and organizational consulting to the firm. He has advised CEOs, investors, boards and high-profile industry leaders on a wide range of issues impacting the talent landscape.
Most recently, he was a managing partner and head of the Global Chief Human Resources Officers Practice at a major executive search firm. There, his assignments spanned the U.S., Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Previously, Mr. Kaplan held multiple leadership positions at another major search firm. He led a Global Human Resources Practice and was integral in developing that firm’s Board of Directors Human Capital Institute and its Private Equity and Asset Management Practices.
Earlier in his career, was a director of recruiting at Fannie Mae and a recruiting lead at Sapient.
“Dan is a globally-recognized expert in organizational consulting and recruitment,” said Doug Charles, President of the Americas, Korn Ferry. “He is an accomplished leader in the field, known for his trusted relationships with top-tier clients and his ability to develop high-performance teams in a range of practice areas. We are confident that he will make a great impact here.”
Mr. Kaplan served on the board of the Association of Executive Search Consultants (AESC) for five years and was one of 30 global participants in the World Economic Forum’s Talent Mobility Summit. He has also been named one of BusinessWeek’s “World’s 50 Most Influential Headhunters.” Mr. Kaplan is a moderator and speaker at many of the industry’s most prominent panels, and a regular contributor to leading media outlets.
Mr. Kaplan earned a bachelor’s degree from Rutgers University. He is a member of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society’s Business Advisory Council and fundraises for several non-profit organizations.
About Korn Ferry
Korn Ferry is a global organizational consulting firm. We help companies design their organization – the structure, the roles and responsibilities, as well as how they compensate, develop and motivate their people. As importantly, we help organizations select and hire the talent they need to execute their strategy. Our approximately 7,000 colleagues serve clients in more than 50 countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005204/en/
MEDIA CONTACT
Korn Ferry
Liz Allison, 310-556-8583
Liz.Allison@kornferry.com
Source: Korn Ferry