EditorsNote: rewords second sentence of second graf
Andrew Cogliano scored the tiebreaking goal as the Anaheim Ducks scored four times in the first period en route to a 6-3 victory over the New York Rangers on Tuesday night at Honda Center in Anaheim, Calif.
Cogliano was among six different scorers for Anaheim, which chased Rangers goaltender Henrik Lundqvist after only taking seven shots on him. Lundqvist yielded four goals in the game’s first 16:21.
Corey Perry and Rickard Rakell scored power-play goals for the Ducks, who tied a season high by scoring six goals. J.T. Brown started the four-goal first, and Adam Henrique capped the period with a short-handed goal.
Ryan Getzlaf netted an empty-net tally in the third period after setting up the goals by Perry and Henrique. Cam Fowler also had two assists for the Ducks, while Perry had an assist in addition to his goal.
Rick Nash scored twice for the Rangers, who lost for the sixth time in eight games. Michael Grabner added the other goal for New York, and Mika Zibanejad notched two assists.
John Gibson made 16 of his 41 saves in the opening 20 minutes for Anaheim.
Rangers backup goalie Ondrej Pavelec replaced Lundqvist and stopped 21 of the 23 shots he faced.
Anaheim opened the scoring 3:25 into the game. Brown finished off an odd-man rush by beating Lundqvist with a shot over the shoulder after New York defenseman Brady Skjei’s shot caromed off the end boards.
Nash and Perry traded power-play goals in a span of 2:14.
Nash tied it with a wraparound from near the right post, but Perry gave Anaheim a 2-1 lead by finishing off a breakaway.
Nash tied the game for the second time with 4:46 remaining in the opening period by jamming a loose puck by Gibson. However, Cogliano chased Lundqvist a little over a minute later by lifting a shot over the goalie’s shoulder after getting a drop pass from Josh Manson.
The Ducks took a 4-2 lead late in the first following a turnover near center ice by J.T. Miller. Getzlaf gained possession and Henrique raced in, deked Pavelec and scored his 14th career short-handed goal.
The Rangers made it a one-goal game when Getzlaf misplayed the puck and Zibanejad found a streaking Grabner, who finished off the breakaway with his 14th career short-handed tally at 15:53 of the second period.
Anaheim regained its two-goal lead 30 seconds into the third when Rakell tapped in a rebound from the side of the net with one second left on a five-on-three power play.
--Field Level Media
 