January 29, 2018 / 7:56 AM / in an hour LIVE MARKETS-Pre-open roundup Reuters Staff 4 Min Read * European stocks to rise * Asian trading was strong, dollar inched higher * Heavy earnings week begins Jan 29 (Reuters) - Welcome to the home for real time coverage of European equity markets brought to you by Reuters stocks reporters and anchored today by Helen Reid. Reach her on Messenger to share your thoughts on market moves: helen.reid.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net PRE-OPEN ROUNDUP (0753 GMT) European stocks are expected to rise as a new week of the new year’s bull run dawns and investors prepare for a big batch of corporate earnings which they’re scrutinizing closely as a key test of the fundamentals driving the market higher. Hogging the spotlight today is likely to be AMS, the best-performing European stock in 2017, set to have another strong day with pre-market indications for gains of 18 to 25 percent after the chipmaker and iPhone supplier reported its revenue for 2017 nearly doubled. Paul Moran, head of research at Northern Trust Capital Markets, says "This is the guidance raise we thought might happen at the December analyst day. Instead it comes today, just as investors are questioning underlying demand in the iPhone X and hence 3D sensing." Sanofi has just swooped in to buy Belgian biotech company Ablynx, knocking rival Novo Nordisk out of the running and underscoring the keen appetite for pharma M&A. It comes days after Sanofi's biggest deal in seven years -- the $11.6 billion acquisition of haemophilia expert Biorativ. Sanofi's pockets proved too deep for Novo Nordisk and the price -- 45 euros per share, in cash, compared to last week's closing price of 37 euros -- likely reflects the rarity of commercial-stage biotech companies in Europe. The French pharma giant's shares are indicated down as traders digest that price tag. Ablynx's shares, which the Belgian market regulator has suspended from trading until 0930 GMT, are indicated up 20 percent after the bid. (Helen Reid and Tom Pfeiffer)