Growing mid-market CRO continues executive team expansion with addition of seasoned finance leader
SAN DIEGO & RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Synteract , a full-service, international contract research organization (CRO), announced today that Karl Deonanan has joined as chief financial officer (CFO). Deonanan joins Synteract from IQVIA (formerly Quintiles) where he was CFO of the organization’s Research and Development Solutions segment. He will lead Synteract’s Finance and Contracts Proposals organizations as it gears up for its next phase of growth.
“Karl brings deep pharma services expertise, with international experience, and an extensive finance background across corporate finance, operational finance, investor relations, and strategic planning and risk management. His skills will provide the finance vision, strategy and leadership to support our organization as we grow and scale our global capabilities,” said Steve Powell , CEO of Synteract. “We are thrilled to have Karl as a member of our executive team as we partner with our customers to navigate the very complex and dynamic nature of drug development.”
Deonanan draws on more than 20 years of finance leadership experience across publicly traded and privately-held companies. Prior to his role as CFO of IQVIA’s Research and Development Solutions segment, Deonanan held key leadership positions with increasing responsibility over his 14 years with the company. These included vice president of Investor Relations, where he supported the initial public offering of Quintiles; CFO of the Asia and Australia region, based in Singapore; and executive director Finance – Global Data Management and Biostatistics. He started his career in public accounting, working at Dixon Hughes Goodman and later Arthur Andersen.
Deonanan is a licensed CPA and holds a Master of Science degree in accounting from East Carolina University and a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from University of North Carolina at Wilmington.
About Synteract
With 800 staff members across 21 countries, Synteract is an international full-service contract research organization supporting biopharmaceutical companies in all phases of clinical development. Synteract has conducted Phase I-IV studies on six continents and in more than 60 countries, offering a notable depth of expertise in oncology, CNS, ophthalmology, respiratory indications, as well as rare and orphan, pediatric and immunotherapy studies. With its “Shared Work – Shared Vision” philosophy, Synteract provides customized services collaboratively, ensuring on-time delivery of quality data to help bring tomorrow’s treatments to patients.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006149/en/
For Synteract
Hilary McCarthy, 508-829-2543
hilary@clearpointagency.com
Source: Synteract