SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Consumer and regulatory attorney Greg Sperla joins Scali Rasmussen's Sacramento office today in the firm's Proposition 65, Regulatory & Licensing and Litigation practices.
Sperla, previously a consumer product and regulatory attorney at Greenberg Traurig, has extensive experience representing national consumer product companies in California on federal compliance issues such as product safety, product registration, labeling, claims/marketing and licensing. He also litigates related cases brought under California's consumer and environmental protection laws.
"Greg's addition makes us a Prop. 65 powerhouse with five attorneys who formerly practiced at large, national firms, including Steptoe & Johnson, Greenberg Traurig and Norton Rose Fulbright, and chaired by Bruce Nye ," said Christian Scali , who founded the firm in 2013. "Few can economically compete with us while providing AmLaw 100-quality service."
Nye , who is well known for his landmark victory in Baxter Healthcare Corporation v. Denton (2004), said he's excited to have Sperla join his team.
"Greg's deep knowledge of both the legal and practical aspects of Prop. 65 will be of extreme value to our clients," said Nye. "He brings them enormous value with compliance consulting, case resolution and defense."
Regulatory & Licensing Practice Chair Melanie Cliff says she's excited to broaden the firm's regulatory compliance services.
Prior to joining Greenberg Traurig, Sperla was a Capital Fellow for the California Senate, consulting on legislative and policy issues. He earned his Bachelor's from San Francisco State in 2007, and his J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley in 2011.
"California's legal landscape is as challenging as they come, which is why I'm thrilled to join the talented team of litigators, transnational and compliance practitioners who also feel that timely, efficient and individualized client service should always come first," said Sperla. "In addition to its incredible experience and skill, I don't know of a team that has as many experienced Prop. 65 litigators as Scali Rasmussen. Here, I look forward to offering clients the highest level of comprehensive service at a lower price than larger, less nimble, firms."
For more information, visit Scali Rasmussen .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/scali-rasmussen-adds-consumer-product-and-regulatory-attorney-greg-sperla-300589528.html
SOURCE Scali Rasmussen