0 COMMENTS Sign up: With one click, get this newsletter delivered to your inbox .
A.P. Moller-Maersk AMKBY -0.11% is trying to jumpstart a shipping industry move toward blockchain. The parent of container shipping giant Maersk Line and International Business Machines Corp. are expanding their cooperation on the technology, the WSJ’s Imani Moise and Dominic Chopping write, with a joint venture aimed at creating a more efficient and secure platform for global trade. Maersk was one of the corporate victims of last summer’s global cyberattack but the shipping line’s work with IBM started earlier as a bid to pull together the fractured and document-filled business of managing and tracking trade flows. Other transport and logistics operators are circling the technology, including operators in the U.S. in the Blockchain in Trucking Alliance. With its goal of creating a separate platform by the middle of this year, the Maersk-IBM push may offer the best test yet of blockchain in logistics—if they can get shipping customers and others in the supply chain on board.
U.S. coal is finding new life in Asia. Coal giant Cloud Peak Energy Inc. struck a deal to send nearly a quarter of its exports to Japan, the WSJ’s Timothy Puko reports, the latest boost from Asian markets that have helped U.S. producers recover from a bleak era . The plan will move coal from the Powder River Basin in the Western U.S. to a Fukushima power plant, part of Japan’s effort to have coal-fired plants replace nuclear power. Asia has been a bright spot for coal companies as demand in the U.S. has waned. Coal transport by rail increased 7.9% last year, says the Association of American Railroads, but annual coal carloads remained more than 26% behind the level reached in 2012. Federal figures show coal exports surged 70% year-over-year in the first 10 months of last year, a boon for the companies and for seaport terminals and bulk carriers handling the trade.
One of the world’s defining industrial giants may be cutting itself down to size . General Electric Co. is considering breaking apart the business-world icon, the WSJ’s Thomas Gryta reports, in a new strategic assessment that responds to a sudden collapse in profits and highlights a move by industrial America away from sprawling scale. GE sells products as diverse as airplane landing gear and hospital incubators world-wide, and has created enterprises that connect manufacturing and financial services. The possible breakup reflects broader pressures on businesses to adapt faster to technological change and competitive threats, making the need for speed more important than the benefits of scale. GE competitors Honeywell International Inc. and United Technologies Corp. are among those looking at streamlining operations, and firms including Alcoa Corp. , DowDuPont Inc., Xerox Corp. and Hewlett-Packard have moved in recent years to pull themselves apart.
SUPPLY CHAIN STRATEGIES The Port of Savannah, Ga. Photo: Bloomberg News The inventory close-out sale may not be the end of the line for some troubled retailers. Store owners have been filing for bankruptcy protection at a rapid pace, with 17 retailers of significant scale entering chapter 11 last year, often leaving suppliers standing in line along with other debt holders. Only three of those retailers shut down for good, however, and the WSJ’s Esther Fung writes the others kept some stores open after winning concessions from landlords. That’s effectively turned liquidation sales into negotiating tools for companies that supply troubled retailers with space and goods. Many retailers, struggling with growing online competition, are pruning their physical store lineups since rents can make up a big portion of their costs after inventory. That’s made it more important for suppliers and logistics providers to keep tabs on the financial health of their retail customers to keep from being left on the wrong side of the liquidation sales.
QUOTABLE
‘ The one growth opportunity we’ve got are Asian exports. ’
—Colin Marshall, chief executive of coal producer Cloud Peak.
Number of the Day 33% Increase from mid-July to mid-January in average price for bunker fuel for shipping, according to Bunker World BW380 index .
IN OTHER NEWS CSX Corp.’s revenue fell 6% and volumes fell 8% but fourth-quarter operating profit at the freight railroad rose 12% to $1.1 billion. (WSJ)
New orders and shipments for manufacturers in New York state both declined in January . (WSJ)
Ferrero International SA will pay $2.9 billion in cash to buy Nestle SA’s U.S. chocolate business . (WSJ)
Chevron Corp. is resuming drilling operations in Iraqi Kurdistan and taking steps to send staff there again. (WSJ)
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV’s chief executive says he has no plans to sell its Jeep business or split up the company, (WSJ)
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce wants Congress to raise the federal fuel tax by 25 cents to back infrastructure funding . (Washington Post)
Norway’s sovereign wealth fund barred investments in several shipping companies because of environmental and human rights concerns. (CNBC)
Rio Tinto PLC’s improved rail service to export seaports helped the miner ship record iron ore tonnage in the fourth quarter . (Financial Times)
FedEx Corp. is moving specialty logistics and other units into the FedEx Trade Networks division run by Richard Smith, son of founder Fred Smith. (Memphis Commercial Appeal)
Top less-than-truckload executives say they expect shipping prices to rise sharply this year . (Logistics Management)
Some airlines affiliated with China’s HNA Group Co Ltd. are delaying payments to lessors amid liquidity problems at the conglomerate . (Reuters)
Ship brokers say tanker earnings have been sliding during the peak demand season amid an oversupply of tonnage . (Lloyd’s List)
Taiwan’s Evergreen Line will acquire 20 ships , each with capacity for 11,000 twenty-foot equivalent units. (Port Technology)
Japan’s Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. acquired Dutch vessel staffing company Azalea Maritime BV. (American Shipper)
Container throughput at Sweden’s Port of Gothenburg plunged 19% in 2017 amid an ongoing dockworker labor dispute . (Seatrade Maritime)
Delivery logistics platform Bringg raised $12 million in a second funding round . (VentureBeat)
Amazon.com Inc. is close to opening a 1 million-square-foot fulfillment center in Riverside, Calif. (Press-Enterprise)
Florida East Coast Railway named Nate Asplund to succeed James Hertwig as president and chief executive officer . (Progressive Railroading)
The St. Lawrence Seaway closed its 2017 shipping season with tonnage up 9% year-over-year, including 29% more iron ore shipments . (Welland Tribune)
Australia complained to the World Trade Organization that Canada is unfairly limiting wine imports . (Globe and Mail)
ABOUT US Paul Page is deputy editor of WSJ Logistics Report. Follow him at @PaulPage , and follow the entire WSJ Logistics Report team: @brianjbaskin , @jensmithWSJ and @EEPhillips_WSJ . Follow the WSJ Logistics Report on Twitter at @WSJLogistics .
Write to Paul Page at paul.page@wsj.com