NEW YORK, Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Guggenheim Securities, the investment banking and capital markets division of Guggenheim Partners, announced today that Ali Faghri will join the firm in February as a Senior Analyst and Managing Director in an expansion of the firm’s Consumer Equity Research team. Mr. Faghri will focus on automotive retail, including part retailers, dealers, auctions, rentals, and online marketplaces.
Mr. Faghri joins Guggenheim from Susquehanna International Group, which he joined as a senior analyst for automotive retail in 2016. Previously, he held equity research roles focused on the automotive industry at Sterne Agee/CRT Capital.
“We are excited to welcome Ali to Guggenheim,” said Stefano Natella, Director of Equity Research. “He has established a well-respected research product that will complement and expand our existing expertise across our retail team and more specifically automotive. We look forward to his continued success at Guggenheim.”
Mr. Faghri received his B.S. from Cornell University.
About Guggenheim Securities
Guggenheim Securities is the investment banking and capital markets business of Guggenheim Partners, a global investment and advisory firm. Guggenheim Securities offers services that fall into four broad categories: Advisory, Financing, Sales and Trading, and Research. Guggenheim Securities is headquartered in New York, with additional offices in Chicago, Boston, Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Houston. For more information, please contact us at GSinfo@GuggenheimPartners.com or 212.518.9200.
About Guggenheim Partners
Guggenheim Partners is a global investment and advisory firm with more than $295 billion 1 in assets under management. Across our three primary businesses of investment management, investment banking, and insurance services, we have a track record of delivering results through innovative solutions. With over 2,300 professionals based in more than 25 offices around the world, our commitment is to advance the strategic interests of our clients and to deliver long-term results with excellence and integrity. We invite you to learn more about our expertise and values by visiting GuggenheimPartners.com and following us on Twitter at twitter.com/guggenheimptnrs .
1 Assets under management are as of 09.30.2017 and include consulting services for clients whose assets are valued at approximately $63bn.
Media Contact
Ellen Cunningham
Guggenheim Partners
212.518.9578
Ellen.N.Cunningham@GuggenheimPartners.com
Source:Guggenheim Securities