FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Universal Insurance Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: UVE) announced today that its Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per share of common stock to be paid on March 12, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2018.
If declared and paid as intended, the annual aggregate dividend in 2018 will be $0.56 for each common share. The declaration and payment of future dividends is subject to the Board's discretion and will be dependent upon future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements, and other factors.
About Universal Insurance Holdings, Inc.
Universal Insurance Holdings, Inc., with its wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a vertically integrated insurance holding company performing all aspects of insurance underwriting, distribution and claims. Universal Property & Casualty Insurance Company (UPCIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is one of the leading writers of homeowners insurance in Florida and is now fully licensed and has commenced its operations in North Carolina, South Carolina, Hawaii, Georgia, Massachusetts, Maryland, Delaware, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Minnesota, Michigan, Alabama, Virginia, New Jersey, and New York. American Platinum Property and Casualty Insurance Company (APPCIC), also a wholly-owned subsidiary, currently writes homeowners multi-peril insurance on Florida homes valued in excess of $1 million, which are limits and coverages currently not targeted through its affiliate UPCIC. APPCIC is additionally licensed and has commenced writing Fire, Commercial Multi-Peril, and Other Liability lines of business in Florida. For additional information on the Company, please visit our investor relations website at www.universalinsuranceholdings.com .
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. Such statements may include commentary on plans, products and lines of business, marketing arrangements, reinsurance programs and other business developments and assumptions relating to the foregoing. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. Future results could differ materially from those described, and the Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statements. For further information regarding risk factors that could affect the Company's operations and future results, refer to the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017.
Contacts:
Investors
Media
Dean Evans
Andy Brimmer / Mahmoud Siddig
VP Investor Relations
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher
954-958-1306
212-355-4449
de0130@universalproperty.com
 releases/universal-insurance-holdings-inc-announces-quarterly-dividend-of-014-per-share-300586014.html
SOURCE Universal Insurance Holdings, Inc.