LOS ANGELES, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP, Southern California's leading business law firm, has announced that Dan Rozansky has joined the firm as a partner in its Sherman Oaks office. Mr. Rozansky will join the Business Litigation practice group.
"Dan is a fantastic addition to our firm" commented Scott Alderton, Managing Partner. "Not only does he augment our litigation practice at a very senior level, which is the fastest growing segment of our firm, he also brings a synergy to our entertainment and digital media practices, which are at the core of our technology expertise. Dan would be a great asset to any firm in the country, and we feel very fortunate that Dan chose to join Stubbs Alderton & Markiles."
Mr. Rozansky concentrates his litigation practice on entertainment, privacy, First Amendment and complex business and real estate disputes. Recognized as an industry leader, Dan has been listed as a top entertainment and media litigator in Chambers USA (2011-2016). In 2013, 2014, and 2016, he as featured in Variety's "Legal Impact Report," which names the top attorneys who are making a significant impact in the entertainment industry. Prior to joining Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, he worked at Jenner & Block's Los Angeles office.
Dan Rozansky stated, "I am thrilled to be joining the firm. It is rare to find a business law firm of this size with such high quality corporate lawyers and litigators under the same roof. I chose Stubbs Alderton because its technology focus and deep bench of talented attorneys will allow me to continue delivering excellence to my clients."
To read Dan Rozansky's full bio, click here .
About the Stubbs Alderton & Markiles Business Litigation Practice
The Firm's business litigators have significant depth and breadth of resources and a detailed knowledge of clients' industries and business concerns. As trusted counselors to middle market businesses, and particularly early stage, growth companies and entrepreneurs, we understand that how a company or entrepreneur handles dispute risk oftentimes is the difference between business success and failure. For more information about the Business Litigation practice at Stubbs Alderton, click here .
About Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP
Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP is a business law firm with robust corporate, public securities, mergers and acquisitions, intellectual property and business litigation practice groups focusing on the representation of venture backed emerging growth companies, middle market public companies, large technology and Internet companies, entertainment, video games and digital media companies, investors, venture capital funds, investment bankers and underwriters. The firm's clients represent the full spectrum of Southern California business with a concentration in the technology, entertainment, video games, apparel, consumer electronics and medical device sectors. The firm's mission is to provide technically excellent legal services in a consistent, highly-responsive and service-oriented manner with an entrepreneurial and practical business perspective. These principles are the hallmarks of the firm. For more information, please visit www.stubbalderton.com .
Contact:
Heidi Hubbeling
Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP
(310) 746-9803
hhubbeling@stubbsalderton.com
Related Images
image1.png
Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP
image2.jpg
Daniel A. Rozansky
Related Links
Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stubbs-alderton--markiles-llp-expands-leading-business-litigation-practice-with-the-addition-of-new-partner-dan-rozansky-300583238.html
SOURCE Stubbs Alderton & Markiles, LLP