BERWYN, Pa., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Brinker Capital, a leading investment management company focused on multi-asset class investing, today announced the expansion of its sales and investment teams with three key hires: Anthony Gonzales as Regional Director, Todd Cole, CFA, as Wealth Advisory Portfolio Consultant, and David Hall, CFA, as Senior Vice President, Head of Quantitative Strategy.
Gonzales is responsible for new business development and client service for Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas. He brings more than 17 years of experience in the investment management industry to Brinker Capital. Prior to joining the company, Gonzales worked at Global Financial Private Capital as a Regional Business Consultant, where he oversaw sales, operations, and recruiting efforts. Additionally, he worked at AssetMark, Inc. as a Regional Consultant and at Curian Capital, LLC as a Senior Regional Business Consultant. Gonzales is based in Austin, Texas, and reports to Ed Kelly, AIF, Executive Vice President of National Sales.
As the Wealth Advisory Portfolio Consultant, Cole is responsible for providing high net worth clients and prospects with information about Brinker Capital's customizable investment solutions and services. Cole is based in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, and brings more than 12 years of industry experience to Brinker Capital. Prior to joining the company, Cole worked as a Financial Advisor at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Fidelity Investments. He reports to Ed Kelly, AIF, Executive Vice President of National Sales.
"We're pleased to have Anthony and Todd with their extensive investment management experience join our sales team," said Ed Kelly, AIF, Executive Vice President of National Sales at Brinker Capital. "Both Anthony and Todd will play a vital role in expanding the Brinker Capital brand and our investment management expertise across the United States."
In the newly-created position, Hall will work with the investment team to develop quantitative tools and provide analysis and recommendations to support Brinker Capital's risk-management and portfolio construction, manager research, and asset allocation processes. Hall is based in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, and reports to Jeff Raupp, CFA, Director of Investments. Prior to joining Brinker Capital, Hall worked at TFS Capital as a Senior Analyst and Portfolio Manager, where he participated in all aspects of research, development, and implementation of security-selection strategies and models. Hall also worked as a Senior Quantitative Analyst at Q46 Inc. and Columbia Management. He has over 16 years of investment industry experience and holds a Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics from Colby College, a Master of Science in Financial Engineering from Columbia University, and a Professional Degree in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research from Columbia University.
"The addition of David to our investment team underscores Brinker Capital's commitment to excellence in investment management and advisor support," said Jeff Raupp, CFA, Director of Investments at Brinker Capital. "We believe David's quantitative background and risk-management experience strengthens our investment team and reinforces our dedication to improving investment and investor returns."
About Brinker Capital
Brinker Capital is a privately held investment management firm with $21.7 billion in assets under management (as of December 31, 2017). For 30 years, Brinker Capital's purpose has been to deliver an institutional multi-asset class investment experience to individual clients. Brinker Capital's highly strategic, disciplined approach has provided investors the potential to achieve their long-term goals while controlling risk. With a focus on wealth creation and management, Brinker Capital serves financial advisors and their clients by providing high-quality investment manager due diligence, asset allocation, portfolio construction, and client communication services. Brinker Capital, Inc. is a registered investment advisor.
Learn more at brinkercapital.com and twitter.com/BrinkerCapital
Contact:
Michele Steinmetz
msteinmetz@brinkercapital.com
610-407-8358
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/brinker-capital-expands-sales-and-investment-teams-with-key-hires-300590093.html
SOURCE Brinker Capital