SOUTHLAKE, Texas, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sabre Corporation ("Sabre") (NASDAQ: SABR) will host a live webcast of its fourth quarter and full year 2017 earnings conference call on Feb. 14, 2018 at 9:00 a.m. ET. Management will discuss the financial results, as well as comment on the forward outlook. The webcast is expected to last approximately 60 minutes and will be accessible by visiting the Investor Relations section of Sabre's website at investors.sabre.com .
A live audio webcast of the session will be available on the Sabre website at investors.sabre.com . A replay of the event will be available on the website for at least 90 days following the event.
About Sabre
Sabre Corporation is the leading technology provider to the global travel industry. Sabre's software, data, mobile and distribution solutions are used by hundreds of airlines and thousands of hotel properties to manage critical operations, including passenger and guest reservations, revenue management, flight, network and crew management. Sabre also operates a leading global travel marketplace, which processes more than US$120 billion of global travel spend annually by connecting travel buyers and suppliers. Headquartered in Southlake, Texas, USA, Sabre serves customers in more than 160 countries around the world.
Website Information
We routinely post important information for investors on our website, investors.sabre.com , in the "Investor Relations" section. We intend to use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.
SABR-F
Contacts:
Media
Investors
Tim Enstice
Barry Sievert
682-605-6162
sabre.investorrelations@sabre.com
tim.enstice@sabre.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sabre-announces-upcoming-webcast-of-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-conference-call-300590336.html
SOURCE Sabre Corporation