TAMPA, Fla., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BlueLine Associates announced today that Mr. Steven McCarthy has been named as Chief Operating Officer.
"Steve is a proven leader, who consistently delivers strong business results," said Rocky Silvestri, BlueLine President and CEO. "With his background and experience, I have every confidence in his abilities to align our internal operations with our long-term goals. We are excited he has joined our team."
An experienced global operations leader, Mr. McCarthy joins BlueLine Associates from Fidelity Investments, where he spent the last 17 years, most recently as Senior Vice President of Operations and Regional Leader of the North Carolina region. He held overall responsibility for transaction processing and client service operations for Fidelity's Defined Benefit and Health and Welfare product lines. Additionally, he served as a point executive in the region working with local, federal, and state government officials and business and community leaders. Mr. McCarthy also led all client implementations for strategic client acquisitions, and was responsible for the delivery of enterprise-wide regulatory programs.
Prior to Fidelity, Mr. McCarthy led national operations and functional teams at Staples and UPS.
At BlueLine Associates, Mr. McCarthy will be responsible for day-to-day operations of the company, ensuring the alignment, prioritization, and delivery of company goals. He will also be responsible for maintaining operational excellence across the company with a strong focus on client satisfaction.
Mr. McCarthy received his MBA from Suffolk University. Mr. McCarthy serves as the Board Chair for Rockin' Mini Golf of Nevada, and as Treasurer for H3 – Veteran Charities. He is a member of The 50 Group in Raleigh, NC. He served two terms on the Executive Committee for the Greater Raleigh Chamber of Commerce for two terms. Mr. McCarthy is a proud decorated US Army Veteran.
BlueLine Associates is a process-driven professional services firm that transforms business challenges into growth, operational agility, and competitive advantage. Our foundation in process gives us the vision to develop holistic forward-thinking strategies across our consulting, managed services, and staffing service lines. We leverage our experience, agility, and partnership model to seamlessly implement and execute solutions to elevate customer experience, increase profits, and propel organizations toward new opportunities.
Contact:
Nikki Poe
1-317-519-0050
nikki.poe@blueline-associates.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blueline-associates-names-steven-mccarthy-as-its-new-chief-operating-officer-300579951.html
SOURCE BlueLine Associates