BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Oakworth Capital Bank is pleased to announce that Matt Condra has joined our company to serve our Central Alabama market as a Commercial Banking Client Advisor.
Mr. Condra brings over 15 years of commercial banking experience. His primary focus is developing and managing relationships with privately held commercial and industrial businesses in Birmingham and surrounding markets. Oakworth established its presence in Birmingham in 2008.
According to Reese Kincaid, Oakworth Managing Director of Commercial Banking, "Matt shares Oakworth's vision of 'Redefining Financial Services' while demonstrating leadership through shared core values (Golden Rule, Character, Innovative/Creative Spirit, Professionalism, and Work Ethic). We are pleased to add Matt to our team of exceptional financial services providers."
Mr. Kincaid further states, "All of us at Oakworth are excited about Matt joining our banking team. His experience is a natural fit for Oakworth's focus on delivering customized solutions and distinctive service to businesses in Central Alabama. Oakworth continues to redefine how financial services are delivered, and Matt's experience and proven record further strengthens Oakworth's capabilities in the market."
About Oakworth Capital Bank
Oakworth Capital Bank provides commercial banking, wealth management, and private banking services to successful businesses, families, and individuals. The Bank serves its valued clients across the United States from its headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama as well as offices located in Montgomery and Mobile. For more information about Oakworth Capital Bank and its unique approach, please visit the company website at www.oakworthcapital.com or call us at (205) 263-4700.
For more information contact:
Lindsey Krausen
Phone: 205-278-2736
Email: lindsey.krausen@oakworthcapital.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oakworth-capital-bank-adds-matt-condra-as-client-advisor-300581097.html
SOURCE Oakworth Capital Bank