MEDFORD, Mass. and SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Agero, Inc. , a market leader in software enabled driver assistance services to automotive manufacturers and insurance providers in North America, today announced its acquisition of San Francisco-based SwoopMe, Inc. (Swoop), a provider of web-based dispatch solutions for roadside assistance providers. Swoop has been heralded in the automotive community for its intuitive, end-to-end dispatch management platform which helps service providers optimize operational efficiencies, and its transparent mobile service updates to consumers which strengthens brand loyalty.
“We are excited to bolster our service provider relationships by joining forces with the Swoop team, as we believe they’ve created the industry’s most innovative and comprehensive service provider platform,” said Agero CEO and President Dave Ferrick. “The responsiveness and quality of the roadside service provider is central to customer experience and loyalty, and Agero remains commited to investing in and partnering with a multitude of dispatch platforms to ensure we deliver that premium roadside connection.”
Together, Agero and Swoop provide customers with a uniquely powerful combination of trusted network and operational scale as well as truly innovative software solutions and digital experiences. The Swoop offerings will supplement Agero’s existing roadside provider assets such as RoadsideConnect, along with its industry leading dispatch partner integrations. The Swoop acquisition comes on the heels of Agero’s recent unveiling of its proactive service response model and leading omni-channel experience .
“Joining Agero allows us to double down on our already powerful service provider offering. We will continue to work hand in hand with our service provider community to further develop a compelling solution for their operational and business needs,” notes Swoop co-founder and CEO Sameer Bhalla. “We could not be more excited about coupling our unique platform with the resources, experience, and operational excellence of Agero’s team and business. We believe it represents a truly unique partnership in the industry that positions us well in the ever-changing automotive and insurance environment.”
Swoop employees have joined Agero effective immediately, and the company will remain an independently managed dispatch solution, and continue to maintain and expand its existing San Francisco presence. Agero remains committed to its national network of trusted service providers, and will continue to ensure its clients can rely upon its leading portfolio of driving solutions inclusive of roadside assistance, accident management, and telematics products. Swoop marks another major step in accelerating Agero’s roadmap to deliver against evolving market needs as autonomous vehicles and car sharing trends continue to penetrate, and consumers’ appetite for digitally enabled experiences intensifies.
About Agero
Agero’s mission is to safeguard consumers on the road through a unique combination of platform intelligence and human powered solutions, strengthening our clients’ relationships with their drivers. We are a leading provider of driving solutions, including roadside assistance, accident management, consumer affairs and telematics. The company protects 80 million vehicle owners in partnership with leading automobile manufacturers, insurance carriers and other diversified clients. Managing one of the largest national networks of service providers, Agero responds to more than 10 million consumer requests annually for assistance. Agero, a member company of The Cross Country Group, is headquartered in Medford, Mass., with operations throughout North America. To learn more, visit www.agero.com and follow on Twitter @AgeroNews .
About Swoop
Swoop’s mission is to empower service providers to deliver exceptional service through software automation. Swoop develops a leading dispatch management platform for local service providers, helping them more efficiently run their businesses and more quickly and intelligently dispatch jobs to their drivers. Swoop was founded in 2014 and is headquartered in San Francisco, CA. Swoop was initially backed by Founder Collective, Slow Ventures, SV Angel, and Entree Capital, who supported our continued mission to transform the towing and transport industry with easy to use mobile software. To learn more, visit www.joinswoop.com .
Media Contacts
Jeannine Booton
VP, Marketing
jbooton@agero.com
617.905.2477
Andrew Goss
Voxus PR for Agero
agoss@voxuspr.com
253.444.5446
Source:Agero, Inc.