KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lockton Benefit Group (LBG) is pleased to announce the addition of Mike Mascolo as Chief Operating Officer (COO). In his new role, Mascolo will focus on coordination and collaboration across the benefits group as well as play an essential role in working with insurers and other business partners.
Mascolo is highly regarded in the benefits industry for his client consulting and management skills. He has been in the healthcare and insurance business for more than 20 years, spending the last decade with Wells Fargo Insurance.
"I'm thrilled to welcome Mike as COO. His stellar reputation in our industry, coupled with his personable nature, makes him a natural fit for Lockton," said Bob Reiff, President, Lockton Benefit Group. "We have some of the best minds in the business and Mike's leadership will certainly enhance our already outstanding capabilities."
In his most recent role as the Employee Benefits National Practice Resource Leader for Wells Fargo Insurance, Mascolo guided his client consulting teams in their thought leadership and resource development activities. Under his direction, the Employee Benefits Practice implemented a data-driven performance and execution model to deliver outstanding client solutions through an innovative alignment of resources and enhanced priority action planning.
"Lockton has a great reputation for client advice and innovation," said Mascolo. "I'm excited to join this winning team and look forward to new successes for our clients and the continued growth of our benefits business."
Mascolo will be based out of Lockton's Kansas City, Missouri office.
About Lockton
Lockton is a global professional services firm with 6,500 Associates who advise clients on protecting their people, property and reputations. Lockton has grown to become the world's largest privately held, independent insurance broker by helping clients achieve their business objectives.
For nine consecutive years, Business Insurance magazine has recognized Lockton as a " Best Place to Work in Insurance ."
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lockton-benefit-group-announces-mascolo-as-chief-operating-officer-300578262.html
SOURCE Lockton