MENLO PARK, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global consulting firm Protiviti has promoted 25 of its directors to the position of managing director. The managing director role is responsible for delivering value to clients with excellence and for mentoring their teams of consultants.
"These new managing directors represent an exceptional level of expertise and client service," said Joseph Tarantino, Protiviti president and CEO. "At Protiviti, we strive to give our people meaningful opportunities so they can achieve highly successful careers while helping our clients confidently face the future. The size of this promotion group also reflects the opportunities created by the firm's continued growth."
New Managing Directors
Internal Audit and Financial Advisory
Lauren Brown – Melbourne, Australia
Jeffrey Hartman – Orlando, Florida
Matthew Jackson – Dallas, Texas
Nicole Kirk – San Francisco, California
Vincent Leung – Hong Kong
Hani Masood – Chicago, Illinois
Christopher Payne – Kansas City, Missouri
Susan Ryan – Canberra, Australia
Reema Singh – Cincinnati, Ohio
Risk and Compliance
Laura Brown – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Jason Daily – Chicago, Illinois
Meghan Jankelow – Chicago, Illinois
Guido Zanetti – Milan, Italy
Technology Consulting
Randy Armknecht – Chicago, Illinois
Evan Campbell – Houston, Texas
Enrico Ferretti – Rome, Italy
Paul Kooney – New York, New York
Muazzam Malik – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Douglas Sellers – Chicago, Illinois
Jason Swiergol – Phoenix, Arizona
Matthew Watson – Washington, DC
Business Performance Improvement
Masahiro Momono – Tokyo, Japan
Alix Weikhard – Frankfurt, Germany
Data Management and Advanced Analytics
Suresh Baral - New York, New York
Don Loden – Atlanta, Georgia
About Protiviti Inc.
Protiviti ( www.protiviti.com ) is a global consulting firm that delivers deep expertise, objective insights, a tailored approach and unparalleled collaboration to help leaders confidently face the future. Protiviti and our independently owned Member Firms provide consulting solutions in finance, technology, operations, data, analytics, governance, risk and internal audit to our clients through our network of more than 70 offices in over 20 countries.
We have served more than 60 percent of Fortune 1000 ® and 35 percent of Fortune Global 500 ® companies. We also work with smaller, growing companies, including those looking to go public, as well as with government agencies. Protiviti is a wholly owned subsidiary of Robert Half (NYSE: RHI). Founded in 1948, Robert Half is a member of the S&P 500 index.
Protiviti is not licensed or registered as a public accounting firm and does not issue opinions on financial statements or offer attestation services.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/protiviti-promotes-25-leaders-to-managing-director-positions-300586471.html
SOURCE Protiviti