January 22, 2018 / 10:57 AM / Updated 3 hours ago Australian Open day eight Reuters Staff 5 Min Read 
MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Highlights of Monday’s eighth day of the Australian Open, the first grand slam tournament of the year (times in GMT): 1135 RELENTLESS CHUNG STORMS PAST DJOKOVIC 
Chung Hyeon became the first South Korean to ever reach the quarter-finals of a grand slam when he pummelled his way past Novak Djokovic 7-6(4) 7-5 7-6(3) in one of the biggest shocks of the tournament so far. 
The six-times champion looked dazed as his 21-year-old opponent turned in a relentless display of high-energy tennis to set up a quarter-final meeting with American Tennys Sandgren. READ MORE 
Sandgren topples Thiem to keep Melbourne dream alive 
Halep beats pain, Osaka to reach quarter-finals 
Federer makes light of day shift to ease into last eight 
Kerber back in the big time after tough year 
American Keys storms into last eight 
Injury-free Berdych sweeps past Fognini 
Order of play on Monday 
Order of play on Tuesday 1050 SANDGREN RELISHING ELEMENT OF SURPRISE 
Tennys Sandgren on how being a relative unknown is giving him the edge in Melbourne. The American beat fifth-seed Dominic Thiem to reach the quarter-finals and continue his dream Australian Open debut. 
“I have that going for me, that guys may not know what to expect,” Sandgren said in an on-court interview. “I‘m using that to my advantage and just trying to ride the wave. It’s my first main draw, and now I am in the quarter-finals.” 1000 GIANT-KILLER SANDGREN UPSETS THIEM 
American Sandgren has knocked out yet another top 10 seeded player, beating Austrian Thiem 6-2 4-6 7-6(4) 6-7(7) 6-3 to progress to the quarter-finals of a grand slam for the first time. 
The 26-year-old, who beat ninth seed Stan Wawrinka in the second round, will take on the winner of the match between former champion Novak Djokovic and Next Gen ATP Finals winner Chung Hyeon. 0740 HALEP ON HER INJURY 
Top seed Simona Halep on overcoming her ankle injury, sustained in her first round victory over Destanee Aiava, to beat heavy-hitting Naomi Osaka and reach the quarter-finals. 
“This tournament looks like a marathon for me,” Halep said in an on-court interview. “The injury is still there, I feel it but I try not to think about it, trying to enjoy the moment and give everything...” 0735 HALEP SURGES PAST OSAKA Tennis - Australian Open - Hisense Arena, Melbourne, Australia, January 22, 2018. Tennys Sandgren of the U.S. takes a photo with fans after winning his match against Austria's Dominic Thiem. REUTERS/Toru Hanai 
World number one Halep remained on course for a maiden grand slam title when she progressed to the quarter-finals of the Australian Open with a 6-3 6-2 win over Japan’s Osaka. 
The Romanian has reached the last eight at Melbourne Park for the third time and will next face the winner of the all-Czech showdown between Karolina Pliskova and Barbora Strycova. 0640 FEDERER INTO QUARTERS 
Defending champion Roger Federer has progressed to the last eight of the Australian Open for the 14th time after a 6-4 7-6(3) 6-2 victory over Hungarian Marton Fucsovics. 
The world number two, who has never lost a quarter-final at Melbourne Park, will take on Czech 19th-seed Tomas Berdych next. 0425 KERBER REFLECTS ON A TOUGH MATCH 
German Angelique Kerber gave credit to Hsieh Su-wei for a thrilling fourth-round encounter on Rod Laver Arena. 
“First of all, credit to her. She played unbelievable. She was hitting the balls, I don’t know. I was running everywhere and she always had the answer. I was everywhere,” the former champion said after sealing a quarter-final berth. 0417 KERBER BATTLES PAST HSIEH 
Former champion Kerber recovered from a set down to beat Taiwan’s Hsieh 4-6 7-5 6-2 in the fourth round. 
Kerber, the only remaining former grand slam winner in the women’s draw, will face American Madison Keys in the quarters. 0405 BERDYCH EASES INTO QUARTER-FINALS 
Czech Tomas Berdych beat Italian Fabio Fognini 6-1 6-4 6-4 to progress to the last eight of the Australian Open for the seventh time in eight years. 
The 19th-seed will take on title favourite Roger Federer next. 0210 KEYS HAPPY TO BE BACK 
Madison Keys missed the 2017 Australian Open due to a wrist injury and is relishing her winning return to Melbourne Park. 
“It definitely made me realise how much I love it and how much pressure I put on myself. Missing this last year, I feel like I‘m playing without pressure and just going out and playing my game,” the American said after her fourth-round victory. 0135 AMERICAN KEYS THRASHES GARCIA TO REACH LAST EIGHT 
Keys, the last surviving American woman at Melbourne Park, thrashed eighth seed Caroline Garcia 6-3 6-2 to reach the quarter-finals. 
The 22-year-old next faces 2016 champion Angelique Kerber. 0030 PLAY UNDERWAY ON DAY EIGHT 
Play got underway on schedule at 11 a.m. local time (0000 GMT) at Melbourne Park with Madison Keys and Caroline Garcia battling it out for a place in the quarter-finals. 
The temperature was 23 degrees Celsius (73 degrees Fahrenheit) and forecast to reach a high of 26. Read our preview of the day’s action here: Compiled by Nick Mulvenney, Aditi Prakash and Simon Jennings; Editing by John O'Brien and Ed Osmond