CAMPBELL, Calif., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Saama Technologies, Inc. , a leading clinical analytics company, today announced that renowned scientist Makarand (Mak) Jawadekar, Ph.D., accepted a position on the company’s Board of Advisors. Dr. Jawadekar brings over three decades of drug discovery and development experience to his partnership with Saama, including extensive expertise creating and cultivating external alliances to optimize drug discovery as well as drug delivery technologies.
Saama Technologies, Inc. Board of Advisors
“Dr. Jawadekar is a legend in the pharmaceutical industry,” said Sagar Anisingaraju, Chief Strategy Officer of Saama Technologies. “His passion for applying data and analytics to speed drug development is matched only by the breadth and depth of his experience in the life sciences industry. He will be an invaluable guide to Saama as we continue to expand our business, and will positively influence and inform our future roadmap.”
"I am excited about my partnership with Saama and how the company is transforming data and analytics to bring critical therapies to market more quickly and cost effectively," said Dr. Jawadekar. “Saama’s innovative technologies will continue to positively impact human health worldwide and help save lives.”
Dr. Jawadekar spent 28 years at Pfizer, where he served as Director of Portfolio Management, as well as Bench Scientist for the formulation of blockbuster drug, Zoloft (sertraline). At Pfizer, Dr. Jawadekar was also responsible for the company’s Drug Delivery Technology Assessment function, incorporating external systems into Pfizer’s operations. He has extensive experience in clinical trial supply manufacturing, scale-up and technology transfer, performance metrics evaluation and assessment, drug delivery systems assessment, drug product formulation, contracting, outsourcing as well as Pharma R&D performance benchmarking.
Dr. Jawadekar has received numerous distinctions and awards. In 2006, he was invited to serve as part of President George W. Bush’s trade delegation to India. He represented Pfizer at the 2009 BioAsia International Conference, and was the recipient of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association’s 2001 M.L. Khorana Memorial Lecture of the Year Award.
Dr. Jawadekar is a member of the Board of Directors of New York-based non-profit Abilities Inc. He serves on the Strategic Advisory Boards of numerous Pharma/ Biotech/ Drug Delivery Technology/Nutraceutical companies. Dr. Jawadekar earned his Ph.D. in Pharmaceutics from the University of Minnesota in 1982. In 2011, at the recommendation of the President of India, Dr. Jawadekar also received an honorary D.Sc. degree from D.Y. Patil University in Mumbai.
About Saama
Saama Technologies is the advanced data and analytics company delivering actionable business insights for life sciences and the Global 2000. We are singularly focused on driving fast, flexible, impactful business outcomes for our clients through data and analytics. Our unique “hybrid” approach integrates focused solutions and expertise across the life sciences domain, business consulting, data science, automated data management, and big data technologies. We integrate manual and disconnected initiatives into a well-aligned roadmap facilitating the client’s journey from strategy through solution implementation.
Media Contact
Crystal Black
Saama Technologies
crystal.black@saama.com
408-371-1900
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/8182e6d2-93e8-4a61-9727-5025c0fcf313
Source:Saama Technologies, Inc.