DES MOINES, Iowa and SAGINAW, Mich., Meredith Corporation (NYSE: MDP; www.meredith.com ) announced today that Julie Zoumbaris has been named Vice President and General Manager of WNEM TV5, its station in Saginaw, MI, effective Monday, January 22. Zoumbaris replaces Al Blinke, who recently retired after a career in local broadcasting spanning more than 40-years.
"Julie was an instrumental member of the TV5 sales team for more than a decade," said Meredith Local Media Group Executive Vice President of Operations Patrick McCreery. "She is an exceptional leader with a strong record of growing market share and increasing revenue. We are excited to welcome Julie back to the Meredith family."
Most recently, Zoumbaris served as the Director of Sales for WRTV in Indianapolis where she led her team to the best Indy 500 sales in station history. Additionally, Zoumbaris worked as the Director of Sales at WISH-TV in Indianapolis, where she helped launch the market's first live and local style show with more $1 million in TV and digital revenue.
In addition to her roles at WRTV and WISH-TV, Zoumbaris held sales management positions at WDTN-TV in Dayton, OH and WEYI-TV in Flint, MI. She worked in various sales roles for 14 years at WNEM TV5.
Zoumbaris earned a Bachelor of Arts in Communications from Miami University in Oxford, OH.
About Meredith Corporation
Meredith Corporation (NYSE: MDP; www.meredith.com ) has been committed to service journalism for 115 years. Today, Meredith uses multiple distribution platforms – including broadcast television, print and digital – to provide consumers with content they desire and to deliver the messages of its advertising partners.
Meredith's Local Media Group includes 17 television stations reaching 11 percent of U.S. households. Meredith's portfolio is concentrated in large, fast-growing markets, with seven stations in the nation's Top 25 and 13 in Top 50 markets. Meredith's stations produce approximately 700 hours of local news and entertainment content each week, and operate leading local digital destinations.
 with multimedia: releases/meredith-names-julie-zoumbaris-vice-president--general-manager-of-wnem-tv5-in-saginaw-300583385.html
SOURCE Meredith Corporation