NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- International law firm Proskauer announced today that after 12 highly successful years as the Firm’s Chief Operating Officer, and more than 30 in the legal industry, Art Gurwitz has decided to retire from his responsibilities so he can devote more time to his passions for philanthropy and entrepreneurship. Mr. Gurwitz will serve as a consultant during 2018 and lead certain special projects for the Firm.
During Mr. Gurwitz’s tenure, Proskauer grew significantly in revenues and profitability. Firm Chairman Joe Leccese said, “Art has been a dear friend and trusted advisor to all of us who have served in Firm leadership over the past dozen years and been among the preeminent professional managers in the industry. We are all extraordinarily grateful to Art for his many contributions and the leadership he provided.”
Jonathan O’Brien, who currently serves as the Firm’s Chief Financial Officer and was formerly the Global Finance Director at the Boston Consulting Group, will become Proskauer’s new Chief Operating Officer. Leccese stated, “We selected Jonathan following an extensive national search. We are confident that the transition will be seamless and look forward to Jonathan continuing to provide the financial acumen, management expertise and global perspective he has delivered since joining us in 2015.”
Proskauer is an innovative law firm with 725+ lawyers serving clients located in financial and business centers in the Americas, Europe and Asia. The world’s leading companies and corporations choose us to represent them in their most critical situations, and consider Proskauer a strategic partner to drive their business forward. We work with asset managers, major sports leagues, Fortune 500 companies, entertainment industry legends and other industry-redefining organizations.
Additional information about the Firm can be found at www.proskauer.com .
***
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006165/en/
Proskauer
Jennifer Talbott
Media Relations Manager
jtalbott@proskauer.com
Source: Proskauer