DANVERS, MA, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MobiCard Inc. fka Peer to Peer Network (OTC: PTOP) announces today a delay in filing its financial statements.
The Company, a provider of a SaaS based proprietary mobile business card solution, had announced that on April 6, 2017 detailed here http://bit.ly/2qKRyvg that it had voluntarily filed a Form 15 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission" or "SEC") to voluntarily deregister its common stock and suspend its reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The Company cited the significant cost, limited benefit and very limited trading of its stock as some of its reasons in taking this step.
As an alternative reporting Company, MobiCard Inc. plans to file unaudited financials along with various disclosures directly through www.otcmarkets.com .
The Company has submitted its application on 1/8/18 to OTC Markets and was informed that the application to OTC Markets may take 5-10 days to be effective.
The Company intends to file directly with OTC Markets soon after the application is approved. The Company has also retained the auditing firm BF Borgers CPA PC to conduct a full 2-year audit as the Company plans to take the appropriate steps necessary to re-register its securities with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company cited that the circumstances for deregistration that were associated with costs and limited trading in its common stock are now non factors.
About MobiCard Inc:
MobiCard Inc. fka Peer to Peer Network ("PTOP") owns and markets its core technology, a SaaS mobile solution branded C2A MobiCard, a scalable mobile business card software platform that enables users to create a customized web based personalized mobile app that is sharable by text sms, email, digital and social media. Subscribers are able to track card opens, views and shares all while validating and analyzing new leads and referrals in real time, thereby knowing who and when to follow up www.freemobicard.com
Safe Harbor Statement:
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company invokes the protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategies, products and services, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations, as well as statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will," and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, or achievements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include those set forth in our filings at www.sec.gov . We are under no obligation to (and expressly disclaim any such obligation to) update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Contact: Christopher Esposito Director of Business Development Mobile: (978) 335-4066 chris@freemobicard.com Click here http://bit.ly/2rXjNGK for my Mobicard and connect with me
Source:Peer to Peer Network-MobiCard Inc.