NEW YORK, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- 5W Public Relations , one of the top 15 PR agencies in the U.S., announced today it has expanded its Digital Marketing team, adding Grant Powell as Vice President of Digital Strategy, and Melissa Olund as Vice President of Digital Content, reporting into Senior Vice President, Elizabeth Minton.
Powell comes from an agency background, where he founded multiple digital agencies focused on digital innovation and has worked on large-scale advertising programs for Porsche, American Express and Dow Jones. Powell will be working closely with client partners to elevate their brands through innovative digital strategies across social, paid, SEO, email marketing and more.
Olund brings over 15 years of content experience to the company, having worked at AOL, Rodale, Wenner Media and Verizon/Oath. She will be focused on working with 5WPR clients to tell their stories and build their brands across all digital and social platforms.
"We're excited to add more senior members to the team as our digital offerings continue to increase," said Ronn Torossian, President & CEO . "5W is extremely focused on offering the best programs in digital and social media. Bringing on Melissa and Grant further supports our continued commitment to innovating and providing our clients with the best team and services possible."
5W Public Relations recently announced 2017 revenue growth YOY, growing their client roster in all consumer and corporate categories.
ABOUT 5W Public Relations:
5W Public Relations , a full-service PR Agency, helps some of the world's most admired brands, corporations and personalities achieve more. 5W's bold, resourceful and thoroughly modern approach has measurably increased the positive results of their clients' communication efforts.
5WPR's diverse roster of client experience includes Welch's, Walgreens, Sparkling ICE, Medifast, T-Fal, KRUPS, Zeta Global, Unilever, Ultra Mobile, ROBLOX, Santa Margherita, Camp Bow Wow, JetSmarter, All-Clad and Wendy Williams. Its roster also encompasses clients from government organizations to leading technology startups and businesses.
Public Relations
Ronn Torossian | rtorossian@5wpr.com
212-999-5585
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/5wpr-names-grant-powell-as-vice-president-of-digital-strategy-and-melissa-olund-as-vice-president-of-digital-content-300590297.html
SOURCE 5W Public Relations