AMHERST, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Columbus McKinnon Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCO), a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of motion control products, technologies and services for material handling, today announced that its Board of Directors has approved payment of a regular quarterly dividend of $0.04 per common share. The dividend will be payable on or about February 20, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 9, 2018. Columbus McKinnon has approximately 23.0 million shares of common stock outstanding.
About Columbus McKinnon
Columbus McKinnon is a leading worldwide designer, manufacturer and marketer of motion control products, technologies, systems and services that efficiently and ergonomically move, lift, position and secure materials. Key products include hoists, cranes, actuators, rigging tools, light rail work stations and digital power and motion control systems. The Company is focused on commercial and industrial applications that require the safety and quality provided by its superior design and engineering know-how. Comprehensive information on Columbus McKinnon is available at http://www.cmworks.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
This news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning future revenue and earnings, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results of the Company to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by such statements, including general economic and business conditions, conditions affecting the industries served by the Company and its subsidiaries, conditions affecting the Company's customers and suppliers, competitor responses to the Company's products and services, the overall market acceptance of such products and services, the effect of operating leverage, the pace of bookings relative to shipments, the ability to expand into new markets and geographic regions, the success in acquiring new business, the speed at which shipments improve, and other factors disclosed in the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking information contained in this release.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129006002/en/
Columbus McKinnon Corporation
Gregory P. Rustowicz, 716-689-5442
Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer
greg.rustowicz@cmworks.com
or
Investor Relations:
Kei Advisors LLC
Deborah K. Pawlowski, 716-843-3908
dpawlowski@keiadvisors.com
Source: Columbus McKinnon Corporation