TYLER, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jasper Ventures, Inc. has announced that Brent Jasper has been named president of the Jasper Ventures family of companies. The role is being passed from Jon Jasper who founded Engineering, Procurement, and Construction, Inc. ( EPC, Inc. ) in 1992. “Jon Jasper is recognized as a highly-respected and knowledgeable process engineer in the midstream industry and he has set the bar high as a business leader and a man who is invested in his community and employees. He has built a great foundation for the next generation of leaders at Jasper Ventures,” stated Brent Jasper. “Jon will continue to lead Jasper Ventures’ process engineering department and provide invaluable guidance to our executive team.” Jon Jasper will remain on staff full time and assumes the title of chairman.
“This succession plan has been underway since 2015,” said Jon Jasper. “Brent has been the driving force behind many of our recent strategic changes including the realignment of our corporate structure, purchase and build-out of our Troup, TX fabrication facility, and the construction of our new office building scheduled to be completed in May 2018.”
These changes were implemented to ensure that Jasper Ventures will continue to engineer, design, fabricate, install, lease, and operate world-class gas processing facilities for many years to come. In the last year, Jasper Ventures has increased employment by 300% and continues to gain market share as a key service and equipment provider in the midstream oil and gas industry.
Prior to joining Jasper Ventures as VP of Finance and Accounting in February 2016, Brent was the controller and officer for 9 years for an E&P and Midstream company located in Dallas, TX.
ABOUT JASPER VENTURES, INC.
Jasper Ventures, Inc. is a privately owned corporation that was formed in May 2016 and became the successor to EPC, Inc. Headquartered in Whitehouse, TX, the company’s core focus is the engineering, design, fabrication, installation, leasing and operation of natural gas processing facilities, including cryogenic gas processing plants, mechanical refrigeration units, process treating equipment, and other midstream processing equipment. Jasper Ventures consistently offers the highest quality and most cost-effective solutions for any midstream project. The company has designed and installed plants in the Midland and Delaware Basins, and shale plays including the Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Barnett, Bakken, Marcellus/Utica, and the Merge/SCOOP/STACK . Jasper Ventures, Inc. is the general partner for Veritas Gas Processing, LP, Vulcan Field Construction, LP, Vanguard Processing Solutions, LP, and Viking Dew Point Conditioning, LP. For more information, visit Jasper Ventures, Inc. at www.jasperventuresinc.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005140/en/
Jasper Ventures, Inc.
Les Campbell, 903-939-1555
lcampbell@jasperventuresinc.com
Source: Jasper Ventures, Inc.