Financial Industry Veteran Will Be Key To Best Egg’s Broader Platform Ambitions
WILMINGTON, Del.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Marlette Funding, LLC, the parent company of Best Egg , is pleased to announce the appointment of Mark Elbaum as the company’s new chief financial officer (CFO). As CFO, Elbaum will join the executive management team and lead the finance, accounting and capital markets activities from the company’s headquarters in Wilmington, DE.
“This is a strategic hire that will facilitate the scope of our ambitions for Best Egg,” stated Jeffrey Meiler, chief executive officer of Marlette Funding. “Not only is Mark an accomplished finance services leader but he is a strong cultural fit who has a like-minded employee and customer orientation. Our culture drives the incredible performance here and Mark will both complement and augment the organizational fabric that truly differentiates us.”
Most recently, Mark was the CFO of Merrill Lynch, Bank of America’s Wealth Management business. Prior roles included 18 years in the mortgage industry as CFO of Bank of America’s mortgage lending division, appointed to the position after the company’s acquisition of Countrywide Financial. At Countrywide he held the position of CFO of the Residential Lending Division. After starting his career at Price Waterhouse, Mark worked at Aames Financial Corp, a midsize consumer finance company, where he helped upgrade the finance capabilities to post IPO requirements. Mark has a Masters in Accountancy from University of Southern California and is a CPA and experienced in FP&A as well as capital markets.
“This is an exciting time to join Best Egg as it leverages its robust technology platform to broaden its offering of financial products and services,” Elbaum said. “I am so impressed with the team, customer centricity and outstanding performance—all of which are crucial for achieving aggressive and responsible growth. I’m truly excited about what’s in store for us.”
ABOUT MARLETTE FUNDING
Marlette Funding, through its brand Best Egg, is a financial technology provider on a mission to find better ways to make money accessible to allow people to enjoy life. The team mixes decades of banking experience with deep customer knowledge and smart technology to deliver digital products, services and experiences in a more relevant way. Today, it is a market leader in online lending powering the Best Egg personal, unsecured loan on behalf of Cross River Bank and its numerous institutional investors who provide lending capital. Since March of 2014, Best Egg’s frictionless, online loan platform has delivered $4.7B of prime loans to over 300,000 customers with unparalleled credit performance. The company maintains a Better Business Bureau A+ Rating.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005378/en/
Marlette Funding, LLC
Alison Guzzio, 484-459-3243
Alison@marlettefunding.com
Source: Marlette Funding, LLC