With this merger, Columbus Consulting culminates 2017 with significant company growth in U.S. and Europe, as well as notable partnerships with tier one retailers
COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Columbus Consulting International , a leading industry consultancy specializing in retail business processes and systems, announced today that C 3 Management Consulting , an independent retail management firm offering an array of management consulting services focused on the consumer experience, has merged with Columbus Consulting.
Through this merger, Columbus Consulting adds C 3 ’s expertise around point-of-sale (POS) technologies, store systems, omnichannel and operational consulting as well as additional services focused on the consumer experience to maximize the impact of people, processes and technology across all of their clients’ projects. C 3 also brings years of industry experience in performance improvement including business process optimization, digital transformation processes including SaaS migration and cloud deployment, as well as optimization expertise throughout the supply chain.
“We are delighted to bring C 3 into the Columbus Consulting family,” said Jon Beck, CEO, Columbus Consulting International. “Having a customer-centric approach is a top priority for retailers across the board and C 3 ’s depth and breadth in the consumer experience space will give Columbus Consulting the ability to provide our clients with a broader and more specialized offering.”
Columbus Consulting’s merger of C 3 rounds-off a year of increased growth and successful retail partnerships for the consultancy. Columbus Consulting engaged in a total of 186 projects and partnered with a total of 87 retailers in 2017, notable milestones included:
Collaboration with home décor retailer, At Home, to lead the business process, design and implementation of the retailer’s new allocation and merchandise planning solutions. Additionally, Columbus also engaged with the woman’s lifestyle brand, Soft Surroundings, to support allocation business process design. In Europe, Columbus Consulting partnered with notable retailers including Hunkemöller, a leading European lingerie brand with over 800 stores and a pioneer in omnichannel, to select an allocation and replenishment solution. As well as Aspinal of London , a well-known British brand that designs luxurious leather goods, to support the delivery of a new ERP solution and Salomon, a division of Amer Sports, to help roll out new omnichannel customer service programs, including clienteling and bringing eCommerce sales in-store using assisted selling devices. In order to serve the growing client list, Columbus Consulting has also expanded its global team, including the addition of two partners, four principals, and a network of more than 30 independent consultants and extended alliances in Europe and the addition of two new partners, Stuart Leighty and Marc Skinner, in the U.S. Additionally, Columbus Consulting welcomed Mark McNeela as principal and Director of Business Development in 2017.
“As we begin 2018, retailers will continue their transformation journey to meet consumers’ evolving expectations,” said Rick Amari, founder, Columbus Consulting International. “By continuing to grow our team and expertise, we will continue to serve as a great resource for all retailers embarking on this journey.”
Attending NRF 2018 Retail’s Big Show? Book an in-person meeting with Columbus Consulting to learn more about the organization and its current work with retailers.
About Columbus Consulting International
Founded in 2001, Columbus Consulting comprises a team of highly experienced specialists in retail systems and processes. We combine pragmatism, innovation and years of experience to deliver services ranging from strategic insight to tactical project delivery. Our experience stems from holding executive responsibility in retail, and from successfully managing some of the most challenging projects in the industry. To learn more, visit www.columbusconsulting.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005195/en/
Ketner Group PR + Marketing (for Columbus Consulting)
Adrienne Newcomb, 512-794-8876
adrienne@ketnergroup.com
Source: Columbus Consulting International