Technology Expert Joe Henson to Lead the Development of New Systems that Create Meaningful Relationships between Retailers, Brands and Shoppers
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Triad Retail Media , the leader in digital retail media, announced today the appointment of Joe Henson to the position of Senior Vice President (SVP) of Products & Platform. Reporting to CEO Sherry Smith, Henson is responsible for driving the company’s product strategy and leading the product development, implementation and deployment of Triad’s proprietary platforms. Henson’s leadership will enable Triad to develop a product strategy that empowers its retail partners to leverage deeper levels of data insights to transform the retail experience through shopper-based marketing.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005268/en/
Joe Henson, Senior Vice President (SVP) of Products & Platform at Triad Retail Media (Photo: Business Wire)
“We are ecstatic to have Joe join the Triad team to take on this strategically important role,” said Smith. “Joe is an industry veteran of 20 years with a playbook of exceptional go-to-market product strategies and technological expertise. As we forge into the new year, we’re excited to have his leadership set the direction of our evolving product suite, allowing retailers to maximize the value of their media.”
Henson's initial focus will be to launch a proprietary, shopper-based marketing solution that enables brands and retailers to target specific audience segments. This solution will use enhanced data capabilities that bring together specific data sets to identify macro and micro level shopper preferences. He will also work with the product and engineering teams to define and implement Triad’s product strategy and develop a roadmap of offerings that solves for critical needs within the market. These offerings will act as the bridge between various levels of the shopper funnel, from consideration to awareness, all the way to the completed purchase.
“I am excited to be joining Triad under the vision of newly appointed CEO Sherry Smith,” said Henson. “Triad is evolving as a company to stand out from the competition with unique products and platforms, with a focus on being smarter about data and leveraging it in different ways to address customers’ demand for a personalized experience. I’m looking forward to collaborating with an extremely talented team to bring to market a best-in-class system of connected technologies that allow our partners to utilize data to their full potential and drive measurable results.”
Prior to joining Triad, Henson most recently was Group VP of Product Platform and Technology at Catalina Marketing, where he built global platform strategies to grow value for the company’s clients. In this role, he served as a conduit between technology, analytics, sales, product management and media operations to synergize core functions across the organization. Before that, Henson held various senior-management positions within the technology industry, including at Q Interactive and Baxter, where he began his professional career.
Henson received his B.S. in Management Information Systems from Western Illinois University. He currently resides in the Tampa Bay area.
About Triad Retail Media
Triad Retail Media is the leader in digital retail media. It helps leading retailers create, manage and operate digital media programs, turning their highly trafficked websites into valuable publishing properties. Walmart.com , Toys"R"Us, CVS, Sam’s Club, Staples and Kohl’s are among the major retailers that rely on Triad Retail Media to pioneer how thousands of brands engage, inform and inspire shoppers to purchase. Founded in 2004 and headquartered in St. Petersburg, Florida, Triad Retail Media is a WPP company with 400+ team members. For more information, visit www.TriadRetail.com or its social media channels: LinkedIn , Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005268/en/
Racepoint Global for Triad Retail Media
Amanda Nadile, 617-624-3244
RPGTriadUS@racepointglobal.com
Source: Triad Retail Media