NEW YORK, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- PMX Agency has named Jeff Johnson as its Executive Vice President. In the role, Johnson will work closely with the agency's Corporate Development and Marketing teams to help lead the strategy and cultivation of omnichannel, global opportunities for brands served by PMX.
Having most recently acted as iProspect's Global Chief Client Officer, Johnson brings deep expertise in the service and growth of enterprise brands and businesses at global scale. His experience and industry insight provide an edge to PMX Agency's corporate vision, and to its unique performance and brand based marketing programs that are built to tackle the most prevalent business challenges of today's leading brands.
"I couldn't be more delighted that Jeff has joined us. His skills and approach are a great match for our ambitions and abilities. It is such a critical time for brands, regardless of industry. Staying prominent and relevant, and being part of customers' lives takes experimentation, courage and a willingness to put growth, first. That's the heart of PMX's priorities and straight into Jeff's passion," said Chris Paradysz, co-CEO of PMX Agency.
Throughout his career in the industry, Jeff has worked with some of the largest brands in the world. Prior to his role at iProspect as part of the global Dentsu Aegis Network, he held roles including Managing Director and co-CEO of Covario, where he was involved in multiple acquisitions as well as the eventual acquisition of Covario by Dentsu Aegis. Before Covario, Jeff spent several years at iCrossing where he held numerous executive roles including Managing Director and SVP of Strategic Account Development.
"We see tremendous opportunity for PMX Agency, and I'm thrilled to be joining this dynamic group of experts with such an incredible set of clients," said Jeff Johnson, EVP of PMX Agency. "With the landscape more complex than ever, PMX is focused on the critical need to close the gap between performance and brand marketing. Without each, emotional connection can't be converted into tangible action."
About PMX Agency
PMX Agency ( www.pmxagency.com ) leads with an insight-driven, consumer centric approach to marketing. With a history steeped in performance and brand marketing, PMX Agency combines an intuitive knowledge of the customer experience with customized, scalable research and data-driven strategies across paid, earned, and owned programs. With a client list of leading global brands that spans key verticals, including Retail, Financial Services, Education, Publishing, Technology, Nonprofit and B2B, PMX Agency continues to grow its reputation as the industry's most critical thinkers and leaders. PMX is a proud member of the Stagwell Group ( www.stagwellgroup.com ), a collaborative group of agencies who are out to "reinvent the holding company" according to the Wall Street Journal.
CONTACT: North 6th Agency, 212-334-9753, PMX@n6a.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pmx-agency-welcomes-former-iprospect-global-chief-client-officer-jeff-johnson-as-executive-vice-president-300580743.html
SOURCE PMX Agency