CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Award-winning mortgage experts Fritz Julien and Kevin Napoleon joined Key Mortgage Services, Inc. in November. These industry experts bring almost 30 years of combined experience in loan and mortgage origination.
“What we’re most proud of looking back at 2017 is the quality of the loan originators that want to come to Key Mortgage,” said Esther Phillips, senior vice president at Key Mortgage.
Fritz Julien
Top producing Fritz Julien, with 12 years of experience, found that Key Mortgage’s team environment inspires him to create and cultivate even more of the relationships that matter. Winner of the 2016 Chicago Agent magazine Who’s Who in Real Estate and five-time winner of Chase’s National Achiever Award, Julien is a problem-solver with big plans to take advantage of the resources and flexibility Key Mortgage offers. “The best thing about working at Key Mortgage, is that you can say yes — way more than you can say no,” Julien said.
Kevin Napoleon
Five-time winner of Chicago Magazine’s Five Star Mortgage Professional Award, Kevin Napoleon, also joined Key Mortgage in November. With 16 years of experience in the mortgage banking industry, he made the move for Key Mortgage’s supportive culture, valuing person-to-person relationships as a vital part of the path to growth. He found the company’s commitment to loan officers, agents, and clients to be the best fit for his approach as a loan officer. “Having the consumer thank their real estate agent for being introduced to me — that’s one of the highest compliments I can get,” said Napoleon. With his extensive industry knowledge, he makes mortgage easier for his clients, so they can make the best choices possible.
About Key Mortgage Services, Inc.
With a rich history rooted in Chicago since 1855, Key Mortgage Services built a reputation for delivering a flawless, client-focused experience through the entire loan process. Known for superior customer service, low mortgage costs, and expertise in every area of mortgage lending, Key Mortgage provides real estate professionals, builders, and individual homebuyers with a responsive and integrated experience.
Key Mortgage is a full-service mortgage company that consistently ranks among the top lending institutions across the state. For more information, visit MyKeyMortgage.com .
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006290/en/
Key Mortgage Services, Inc.
Leslie Rowe, 847-493-5053
leslie.rowe@keymortgageservices.com
Source: Key Mortgage Services, Inc.