Healthcare Finance Veteran Felix Morgan Brings More Than 20 Years of Financial Expertise to the Organization
WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Verscend Technologies, Inc. (Verscend), a leader in data-driven healthcare solutions, today announced that Felix Morgan has been named chief financial officer (CFO). Morgan is a seasoned healthcare executive who will provide fiduciary, compliance, and planning oversight for the company.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005892/en/
Felix Morgan, Verscend Technologies Chief Financial Officer (Photo: Business Wire).
“Verscend is in a key place to help the U.S. healthcare system undergo positive transformation through advanced analytics and their intelligent application,” said Dr. Emad Rizk, president and chief executive officer of Verscend. “Felix’s extensive experience driving profitable growth within multibillion-dollar Fortune 500 and Fortune 50 companies is precisely what we need to accelerate our growth and further our industry leadership.”
Morgan has more than 20 years of financial and operational leadership experience, including mergers and acquisitions and international operations, with the last 12 years focused on the healthcare technology and services sector. He joins Verscend from Aetna, where he was CFO for the insurance company’s population health solutions; this encompassed commercial-facing technology solutions such as health information exchanges, analytics, and health outcomes. He has also held senior roles at Henry Schein and Ancestry.com .
“I’ve followed Verscend closely over the years, and I have observed the promise of healthcare data analytics to revolutionize the business of healthcare and Verscend’s ability to deliver on that promise to many of the largest insurers in the country,” said Morgan. “I look forward to joining the leadership team and to all that the future holds for this company.”
About Verscend Technologies, Inc.
Verscend Technologies (formerly Verisk Health) drives better healthcare outcomes through data analytics, supporting payers' financial performance and quality improvement initiatives. Our Payment Accuracy, Risk Adjustment, Quality Improvement, and Performance Analytics solutions help organizations utilize their data so they can efficiently and cost-effectively succeed in the new era of healthcare. Learn more at www.verscend.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005892/en/
Verscend Technologies
Jeffrey Robinson, 781-693-3717
Jeffrey.Robinson@verscend.com
Source: Verscend Technologies, Inc.