ANN ARBOR, Mich., Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Home Point Financial Corporation (“Home Point”), a national, multi-channel mortgage originator and servicer announced today that it has named Richard Bradfield Enterprise Chief Financial Officer (ECFO) and Bill Shuler Chief Information Officer (CIO). Both will report directly to Willie Newman, Home Point Financial President and CEO.
Prior to joining Home Point, Rich spent more than 25 years at PHH Corporation, most recently in the role of Senior Vice President, Head of Originations, Financial Institutions Group. He is an accomplished and seasoned financial executive.
Bill previously served as President of WPS Advisors, LLC, and prior to that, as Chief Operating Officer at Genesis Pure. He has nearly twenty years’ experience leading business and information technology divisions.
“It’s a tremendous opportunity to join an organization with such potential for significant growth and development,” said Mr. Bradfield.
Mr. Shuler added, “I’m pleased to combine my experience in information technology with the strategic initiatives set forth by our executive team.”
“I’d like to welcome Rich and Bill to the Home Point team,” said Willie Newman. “We are fortunate to have added two leaders with their depth and breadth of experience. They are great additions to our already strong executive group.”
For additional information, please visit www.homepointfinancial.com .
About Home Point Financial
Home Point Financial is a national multi-channel mortgage originator and servicer. With the goal of providing a superior customer experience, Home Point has an innovative approach to lending, focusing on speed, quality and consistency for customers and partners. Home Point's operating philosophy is defined by the simple but very impactful statement – "We Care".
Located in Ann Arbor, MI, Home Point Financial is a subsidiary of Home Point Capital LP, a financial services holding company founded in 2014 and owned by members of management and by investment funds managed by Stone Point Capital LLC. For further information about Home Point Financial, please visit www.homepointfinancial.com .
For inquiries, please contact:
Home Point Financial:
Matt Goodman
Email: information@homepointfinancial.com
Source: Home Point Financial