BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Daxko announced today that it acquired Club Automation, a Chicago-based provider of club management software to over 400 facilities. Daxko is already the leading provider of software solutions to the nonprofit and small business segments, serving 10,000 facilities through its Daxko Operations and Zen Planner brands.
"We are incredibly excited to have Club Automation join the Daxko family. We have promised our club, medical wellness, and recreation customers that we would do something big to revolutionize our technology…and we have. Club Automation is Daxko's club management platform of the future," says Dave Gray, Daxko CEO.
Jeff VanDixhorn, CEO of Club Automation, will continue to lead the company under the Daxko umbrella. The entire Club Automation team has been retained and will continue to operate out of their expanding Chicago office.
"We are incredibly excited that Club Automation is now a Daxko company," says VanDixhorn. "This relationship enables us to further expand the Club Automation platform to serve a growing customer base."
Daxko is a portfolio company of GI Partners, and was represented by Atlas Technology Group and Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP. Club Automation was represented by First Analysis Securities Investment Banking and Foley & Lardner LLP.
About Daxko
Daxko delivers comprehensive technology solutions and experienced services to all kinds of member-based health and wellness centers. Since Daxko began in 1998, we've grown to span 68 countries, 10,000 facilities and over 20 million members. Daxko customers rely on us to be the engine of their growth with deep insight, guidance, technology solutions, and exceptional experiences that make us the industry's recognized #1 software provider. To learn more, visit daxko.com .
About Club Automation
Founded in 2007, Club Automation is a leading health club management software for consumer-based businesses, including health & athletic clubs and medically integrated wellness centers. Club Automation's complete web-based solution currently serves over 400 enterprise-grade facilities nationwide. For more information and product detail, visit clubautomation.com
About GI Partners
GI Partners is a leading private investment firm based in San Francisco. The firm has raised $16 billion in capital through private equity and real estate strategies from recognized institutional investors across the globe. GI Partners' private equity team is active in several sectors, including IT Infrastructure, Healthcare, Software, and Services. For more information on GI Partners and its entire portfolio, visit gipartners.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/daxko-acquires-club-automation-to-become-the-unrivalled-software-provider-in-member-based-health--wellness-industry-300590649.html
SOURCE Daxko