PAWTUCKET, R.I.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Hasbro, Inc. (NASDAQ: HAS) today announced that it will webcast its fourth quarter and full year 2017 earnings conference call on Wednesday, February 7, 2018 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, following the release of Hasbro's financial results.
Certain financial and statistical information included in the webcast, such as information required by Regulation G, will be available at the time of the webcasts in the “Press Releases” section of Hasbro’s website at www.hasbro.com , under “Corporate - Investors.”
Additionally, the Company will webcast its Annual Investor Update at New York Toy Fair 2018 on Friday, February 16, 2018 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The meeting will be hosted by Hasbro senior management including Brian Goldner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Deborah Thomas, Chief Financial Officer, and John Frascotti, President.
Both webcasts and the accompanying presentation slides will be available to investors and the media on Hasbro's Investor Relations home page at http://investor.hasbro.com . Replays of the call and the Investor Day will be available at the same location approximately 2 hours following completion of each event.
About Hasbro
Hasbro (NASDAQ: HAS) is a global play and entertainment company committed to Creating the World's Best Play Experiences. From toys and games to television, movies, digital gaming and consumer products, Hasbro offers a variety of ways for audiences to experience its iconic brands, including NERF, MY LITTLE PONY, TRANSFORMERS, PLAY-DOH, MONOPOLY, LITTLEST PET SHOP and MAGIC: THE GATHERING, as well as premier partner brands. Through Hasbro Studios and its film labels, Allspark Pictures and Allspark Animation, the Company is building its brands globally through great storytelling and content on all screens. Hasbro is committed to making the world a better place for children and their families through corporate social responsibility and philanthropy. Hasbro ranked No. 1 on the 2017 100 Best Corporate Citizens list by CR Magazine, and has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® by Ethisphere Institute for the past six years. Learn more at www.hasbro.com , and follow us on Twitter (@Hasbro & @HasbroNews) and Instagram (@Hasbro).
© 2018 Hasbro, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
HAS-IR
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006051/en/
Hasbro, Inc.
Investor Contact:
Debbie Hancock, 401-727-5401
debbie.hancock@hasbro.com
or
Press Contact:
Julie Duffy, 401-727-5931
julie.duffy@hasbro.com
Source: Hasbro, Inc.