SIGNAL HILL, Calif., Alacrity Energy today announced that Ashley Conrad Gordon has been named Director of Commercial Sales. Within this role, Gordon will be tasked to manage and expand Alacrity's growing commercial & industrial clientele.
Ashley Conrad Gordon spent over 10 years as a mortgage loan officer and nearly 10 years as a solar developer for NextGen Energy and EuroCal Solar. That makes him an ideal fit for Alacrity's commercial clients according to Alacrity's President Yitzy Geisinsky. "We are excited to add Ashley Gordon to the Alacrity team, and we're eager to kickstart 2018 together," said Geisinsky. "Ashley's broad knowledge of the renewable energy sector, along with his extensive financing background, will provide Alacrity's clients with a wide range of renewable energy and financing solutions," he added.
"I look forward to working with Alacrity's existing clients and introducing Alacrity's solutions to a whole new clientele," said Gordon. Alacrity also anticipates Gordon's presence to foster the relationships with its vendors. "We look forward to working with Ashley Gordon to enhance our ongoing relationship with Alacrity Energy," says Frank Kneller, CEO of Horizon Solar Power, one of the nation's largest solar energy installers.
"I believe 2018 will be a robust year for the solar & storage sector as a whole and Alacrity Energy in particular," said Gordon. "I am extremely enthusiastic to lead (come along for) the journey," he added.
About Alacrity Energy LLC
Signal Hill, CA based Alacrity Energy LLC is an experienced, independent turn-key facilitator of alternative energy solutions.
Founded in 2006, Alacrity Energy has experienced tremendous growth and reached nearly $20,000,000 in solar energy installations since 2015.
Alacrity enables its clients to capitalize on cutting edge technological advances and regulatory environment to substantially benefit their bottom line.
Alacrity's goal is to save its clients the time, money and energy during their renewable energy upgrades. They manage the entire installation process – including availing their clients of expert analysis, cutting edge green technology options, financing options and optimized ROI.
Roman Lundin
188296@email4pr.com
310.735.9850 ext 613
AlacrityEnergy.com
View original content with multimedia: releases/alacrity-energy-names-ashley-conrad-gordon-as-director-of-commercial-sales-300577983.html
SOURCE Alacrity Energy LLC