NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cassin & Cassin LLP, a law firm specializing in real estate, real estate finance and trusts and estates, today announced that Etan Moskovic has been promoted to Partner effective January 1, 2018.
Mr. Moskovic joined Cassin & Cassin as an associate in 2011 and is based in the firm’s New York City office. In his practice, Mr. Moskovic works directly with real estate developers, property owners and investors on a variety of sales, development, acquisitions and funding of real estate properties. He specializes in transactional work for borrowers and regularly represents developers and individuals in the financing and refinancing of commercial and residential properties, which includes condominium units, cooperative apartments and single and multi-family homes.
“I’ve enjoyed working closely with Etan to build and grow the real estate development practice,” said Andrew Rosenberg, Partner at Cassin & Cassin. “His focus and drive have been an integral part of the success we’ve had, and this promotion couldn’t be more well-deserved.”
Prior to Cassin, Mr. Moskovic was an associate at Turek Roth Mester LLP, where he represented real estate developers, public and private companies and individual investors in the financing and refinancing of various residential real estate properties.
“Etan has been working to set himself apart as a leader within the industry for some time,” said Michael Hurley, Managing Partner of Cassin & Cassin. “We are beyond excited to congratulate him on this promotion and support him as he continues his professional journey.”
Mr. Moskovic received his JD from New York Law School and a BA in Finance from Yeshiva University. He is admitted to practice law in the State of New York and the State of New Jersey.
About Cassin & Cassin LLP
Cassin & Cassin LLP, a law firm with offices in New York, Los Angeles and Dallas, has over three decades of experience providing the highest quality of service to our clients. Our attorneys focus on real estate law, representing lending institutions, investment funds, developers, small to medium size companies in all aspects of financing, buying, selling, leasing and development. In addition, our well-established Trust & Estates practice advises individuals on estate planning and administration, residential real estate financing and the formation of limited liability companies and private foundations. For more information, visit www.cassinllp.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006169/en/
Water & Wall Group
Reed Schneider, 212-343-2363
reed@waterandwallgroup.com
Source: Cassin & Cassin LLP