FREMONT, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ACM Research, Inc. (NASDAQ:ACMR), a provider of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment used by manufacturers of advanced semiconductors, announced today changes within its executive leadership team.
Lisa Feng has been promoted to Chief Accounting Officer. Ms. Feng has served in various accounting and finance roles since 1997 and mostly recently was Director of Accounting.
Fuping Chen has been promoted to Vice President, Sales–China. Mr. Chen has served the Company in various key sales and marketing leadership roles over the past 7 years. He has made major contributions to ACM’s sales growth and customer base expansion through his knowledge of wafer cleaning technology, his understanding of customer requirements, and his sensitivity to market trends.
Chief Financial Officer Min Xu will be leaving the company effective January 24, 2018 to pursue new opportunities. Mr. Xu helped the company to complete its initial public offering and list its Class A common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market in November 2017.
ACM’s President and Chief Executive Officer Dr. David Wang commented, “We are excited about the promotions of Ms. Feng and Mr. Chen, who will play key roles in our senior leadership team, supporting our strategy of rapid global expansion and increasing market share in China, the largest and fastest-growing market for semiconductors. We appreciate Min’s work in helping ACM to complete its IPO and to prepare ACM to meet its financial statement and other public company reporting requirements. We wish Min all the best in his new endeavors.”
Ms. Feng will assume the responsibilities of the CFO position on an interim basis while the company conducts a formal search for a new CFO.
About ACM Research, Inc.
ACM develops, manufactures and sells single-wafer wet cleaning equipment, which semiconductor manufacturers can use in numerous manufacturing steps to remove particles, contaminants and other random defects, and thereby improve product yield, in fabricating advanced integrated circuits.
© ACM Research, Inc. The ACM Research logo is a trademark of ACM Research, Inc. All rights reserved. Any other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For investor and media inquiries, please contact:
In the United States:
The Blueshirt Group
Ralph Fong
+1 (415) 489-2195
ralph@blueshirtgroup.com
In China:
The Blueshirt Group Asia
Gary Dvorchak, CFA
+86 (138) 1079-1480
gary@blueshirtgroup.com
Source:ACM Research (Shanghai), Inc.