No matter how many you go on, job interviews can always be nerve wrecking. You put on your nicest clothes , print out your resume, and remind yourself to smile real big–and just when you think everything is going well, the interviewer hits you with a curveball question you aren't prepared for.
Luckily, you're not going to let that happen again and you're planning ahead to ace this month's interview . The best way to for anything is to do your research ahead of time–which is why we're here to help.
If you're preparing for a big interview in the New Year, prepping beforehand with these 15 interview questions will help you get one step closer to that dream job.
More from Glassdoor: 
How to stick to your New Year's career resolutions 
8 ways to transform your job search in 2018 
Bosses reveal: 10 things that will help you get promoted in 2018 
1. Tell me about yourself Most interviews start with this question and how you answer it will make your first impression. If you stumble over the answer and aren't quite sure what to say–you're lack of confidence in yourself is showing. If you start listing all your greatest accomplishments and talk too much, your ego might look a little too big. You need to find a good balance between being confident, but not pretentious.
The best way to prepare for this question is to prepare an elevator pitch about who you are. Skip your personal history and give about 2-3 sentences about your career path and how you ended up in this interview, applying for this job. You don't need to be too detailed, there are plenty of more questions coming. You just want to leave enough curiosity that the interview becomes excited to learn more about you throughout the interview.
show chapters Suzy Welch: What to say when a job interviewer says, 'Tell me about yourself'      8:55 AM ET Wed, 6 Sept 2017 | 01:32 2. Why do you want to work for [insert company name]? When a hiring manager asks this question, not only do that want to know why you want to work for them, but they also want to know what you know about the company . This question tests how well you know what the company does and how passionate you are about the work they do–so make sure you know the company well and can speak truthfully about your desires to work there.
3. How did you hear about this job? When asked this during an interview, don't just say you heard about the job on a website. This is your opportunity to go into more details about why you love this company and what motivates you to want to work there. Moreover, if you have a personal connection at the company, this would be a good time to mention their name!
4. Tell me about something on your resume Everyone has something on their resume that they're really proud of. Whether it's a skill or achievement you've listed, or a specific place you worked at, considering answering this question with the most interesting thing on your resume. Plus, don't just say something relevant to your most recent position–you're already going to be asked about that. Instead, think back to one of the older positions listed on your resume and talk about how that job helped your grow into the person you are today.
5. Why are you looking for a job? Or, why are you looking for a different job? This question might seem innocuous, but this is how interviewers weed out the people who are either a) just looking for any job b) were fired from their last position or c) might have a high turnover rate, meaning you won't be sticking around for too long. Focus on the positives and be specific. Think about why you are looking for a job: did you just graduate and this will be your first real job? Are you switching career paths? Are you leaving a current job for this one?
If you are currently working somewhere, you should also be prepared to answer, "why do you want to leave your current job for this one?"
show chapters Suzy Welch: Here's the one thing you must say in a job interview      8:57 AM ET Tue, 10 Oct 2017 | 01:44 6. Why should we hire you? When asked this question, keep in mind that the recruiter is looking to hear what skills you have that you're going to bring to the team. Don't give a vague answer, such as, "I'm friendly and a hard worker." Instead, be specific, summarize your work history and achievements, and use numbers when possible.
In example, say how many years of experience you have or name some of the accomplishments you made at your last company. The more specific you can be about what your skills are and how valuable of an employee you are, the better the interviewer will be able to picture you working there.
7. Where do you see yourself in five years? This can seem like a heavy question during an interview, especially when you haven't prepared for it ahead of time. Keep in mind that you're in an interview setting–so you don't need to go into all the details about what your personal life goals are for the next five years. Focus on your career goals and be realistic.
If you plan to work at this company for five years, make sure you understand who would be working above you and what potential career growth there is. The hiring manager asks this questions to find out if you set realistic goals, if you are ambitious, and to confirm that the position you are interviewing for aligns with these goals and growth.
If this position isn't exactly a job with a lot of future opportunity, you can simply answer this by noting that you are not certain what your future is going to look like, but that you believe this position is going to help you navigate yourself in the right direction.
8. Tell me about a conflict you faced at work and how you dealt with it This question is important to ace because it helps an interviewer understand how you deal with conflict. It also helps test how well you think on your feet–so if you prepare ahead of time with a specific example, you'll avoid the awkward moment of silence while you try to think of an example.
Once you have an example in mind, simply explain what happened, how you resolved the issue in a professional manner, and try to end the story with a happy note about how you reached a resolution or compromise with your co-worker.
show chapters