ATLANTA, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK) will release results for fourth quarter and full year 2017 on Tuesday, February 6th before the market opens. The same morning, the Company will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. eastern time to discuss fourth quarter and full year results. To access the conference call, please go to the Investor Relations section of the Graphic Packaging website: http://www.graphicpkg.com and click on the audio webcast link. For those who need to call in from within North America, dial 800-392-9489 at least 10 minutes prior to the start of the conference call (Conference ID #61299939). Replays of the call will be available for one week following the completion of the call and can be accessed by dialing 855-859-2056.
The Company has also set Tuesday, April 24, 2018 as the preliminary date for the release of first quarter 2018 results.
About Graphic Packaging Holding Company
Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is committed to providing consumer packaging that makes a world of difference. The Company is a leading provider of paper-based packaging solutions for a wide variety of products to food, beverage, foodservice, and other consumer product companies. The Company operates on a global basis, is one of the largest producers of folding cartons and paper-based foodservice products in the United States, and holds leading market positions in solid bleached sulfate paperboard, coated unbleached kraft paperboard and coated-recycled paperboard. The Company's customers include many of the world's most widely recognized companies and brands. Additional information about Graphic Packaging, its business and its products is available on the Company's web site at www.graphicpkg.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/graphic-packaging-announces-release-date-for-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-300580264.html
SOURCE Graphic Packaging Holding Company