BROOMFIELD, Colo., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Webroot , the Smarter Cybersecurity® company, announced it has appointed Drew Thomas to the role of Vice President, Corporate Development. Thomas will be responsible for leading Webroot's corporate partnership and acquisition strategy, and managing the company's business intelligence team.
"Today, Webroot is the number one provider of cybersecurity solutions for managed service providers (MSPs) and small businesses, and we see great potential to extend that leadership position through partnership and acquisition," said John Post, CFO. "Drew brings a strong track record in M&A that will help us expand our product portfolio and protect our customers against a rapidly changing threat landscape."
Prior to joining Webroot, Thomas was a director in William Blair's technology investment banking group, where he focused on enterprise IT, including cybersecurity, networking, and enterprise software. At William Blair, Thomas successfully completed more than 50 transactions with an aggregate value of more than $10 billion. Thomas began his career at Stone Arch Capital and RBC Capital Markets.
"Webroot's cloud-based architecture and use of advanced machine learning uniquely positions our products as both easy to use and incredibly effective against the most dangerous cyber threats," Thomas said. "I am excited to help the company expand its solution set and grow even faster in the dynamic SMB market."
About Webroot
Webroot was the first to harness the cloud and artificial intelligence to protect businesses and individuals against cyber threats. We provide the number one security solution for managed service providers and small businesses, who rely on Webroot for endpoint protection, network protection, and security awareness training. Webroot BrightCloud® Threat Intelligence Services are used by market leading companies like Cisco, F5 Networks, Citrix, Aruba, Palo Alto Networks, A10 Networks, and more. Leveraging the power of machine learning to protect millions of businesses and individuals, Webroot secures the connected world. Headquartered in Colorado, Webroot operates globally across North America, Europe, and Asia. Discover Smarter Cybersecurity® solutions at webroot.com .
Social Media: Twitter | LinkedIn | YouTube | Facebook
©2017 Webroot Inc. All rights reserved. Webroot, SecureAnywhere, Webroot SecureAnywhere, Webroot BrightCloud, BrightCloud, and Smarter Cybersecurity are trademarks or registered trademarks of Webroot Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are properties of their respective owners.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/drew-thomas-joins-webroot-as-vice-president-of-corporate-development-300580410.html
SOURCE Webroot