SAN DIEGO, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC: MJNA), the first publicly traded cannabis company in the United States, today announced that its Marketing Director Michael Coleman has been promoted to Vice President of Online Sales and Marketing for the Company.
Coleman, who joined Medical Marijuana, Inc. in August 2014, is responsible for the marketing strategy and execution of all Medical Marijuana, Inc. subsidiaries and brands, with a focus on digital marketing, including fundamental brand strategy, marketing channel strategy, resource allocation, and digital marketing campaigns.
Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s portfolio of companies and investments includes distribution companies HempMeds® and Kannaway®, international divisions HempMeds® Mexico and HempMeds® Brazil, and investments in biotechnology companies AXIM Biotechnologies and Kannalife Sciences.
"We are excited to expand Mr. Coleman's role and give him the platform to continue to provide creative and strategic marketing direction," said Medical Marijuana, Inc. CEO Dr. Stuart Titus. "Since joining our organization, he has helped provide exponential growth to the Company's brands and has increased web traffic on the Company's website from 9,000 to over 1 million visitors per month since he joined the Company."
"I'm very proud of our work so far in making the Medical Marijuana, Inc. website an important resource for the cannabis community to help tell the Company's dynamic story," said Coleman. "We have a great opportunity for continued growth, especially as more mainstream online marketing and advertising channels become available to the cannabis industry."
Coleman has a B.S. in Management Science from the University of California, San Diego.
About Medical Marijuana, Inc.
We are a company of firsts®. Our mission is to be the premier cannabis and hemp industry innovators, leveraging our team of professionals to source, evaluate and purchase value-added companies and products, while allowing them to keep their integrity and entrepreneurial spirit. We strive to create awareness within our industry, develop environmentally-friendly, economically sustainable businesses, while increasing shareholder value. For details on Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s portfolio and investment companies, visit www.medicalmarijuanainc.com .
To see Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s corporate video, click here .
Shareholders and consumers are also encouraged to buy CBD oil and other products at Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s shop .
FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLAIMER
This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements and information, as defined within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is subject to the Safe Harbor created by those sections. This material contains statements about expected future events and/or financial results that are forward-looking in nature and subject to risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements by definition involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Medical Marijuana, Inc. to be materially different from the statements made herein.
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) DISCLOSURE
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, treat or cure any disease.
LEGAL DISCLOSURE
Medical Marijuana, Inc. does not sell or distribute any products that are in violation of the United States Controlled Substances Act (US.CSA). These companies do grow, sell, and distribute hemp-based products and are involved with the federally legal distribution of medical marijuana-based products within certain international markets. Cannabidiol is a natural constituent of hemp oil.
CONTACT:
Public Relations Contact:
Andrew Hard
Chief Executive Officer CMW Media
P. 888-829- 0070
andrew.hard@cmwmedia.com
www.cmwmedia.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/medical-marijuana-inc-announces-promotion-of-marketing-director-michael-coleman-to-vice-president-of-online-sales-and-marketing-300585059.html
SOURCE Medical Marijuana, Inc.