SCRANTON, Pa., Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Kevin Vincent has been named Director of National Sales at Vycom, a world leader in plastics. He will be responsible for leading and managing all aspects of Vycom's sales force and for driving increased market share and revenue growth by cultivating relationships with customers, the exploration of additional product applications and strategic sales management.
"It is very exciting to lead the exceptional sales team at Vycom," said Vincent. "Vycom is a world-class innovator in the plastics industry and I look forward to exploring growth opportunities for all of our Vycom product families." Vycom's diverse product lines serve the marine, graphics, chemical & corrosion, semi-conductor, food processing and outdoor living markets to name just a few.
In his previous position, Vincent was Vycom's Director of Sales Operations for 10 years, transitioning from the customer service department to the inside sales team. With a proactive focus, he led many initiatives that included implementing business plans, standard operating procedures, pricing strategies and inventory guidelines. Overall, Vincent has 18 years of experience in the plastics industry.
"We are very excited for Kevin's transition into his new role as the leader of our national sales team," said Kevin Duffy, Vycom's Vice President of Sales & Marketing. "His strong relationships with our customer base and years of experience in plastics will position Vycom for growth as we enter 2018."
Vincent attended Indiana University where he received a BS degree in Business Administration.
For more information about Vycom, visit www.vycomplastics.com .
About Vycom:
Vycom, a division of The AZEK Company, manufacturers market leading brands of highly innovative plastic sheet products designed to replace wood, metal and other traditional materials in a variety of applications. Vycom strives to be the essential partner in creating solutions that optimize quality, performance and provide a more sustainable future.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kevin-vincent-named-director-of-national-sales-for-vycom-300581973.html
SOURCE Vycom