FAIRFIELD, N.J., Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Bleakley Advisory Group has announced the addition of 25 year industry veteran Peter Boockvar as their new Chief Investment Officer. In this role, Peter will lead the team that is responsible for the development, management and oversight of Bleakley's investment management program, managing the investment committee, and setting the firm's overall investment philosophy, global investment outlook and asset allocation decisions.
Peter also brings along his asset management business, Bookmark Advisors as the newest affiliate of Bleakley Advisory Group.
Prior to joining Bleakley, Boockvar was a managing director and the Chief Market Analyst for the Lindsey Group – a macro economic and market research firm founded by former Federal Reserve Governor Larry Lindsey. In this role, Boockvar was responsible for global economic & market research at the firm.
Before his time with the Lindsey Group, Peter worked as a macro analyst and portfolio manager for Omega advisors and had previously been a partner at Miller Tabak & Company where he was an equity strategist and portfolio manager.
As a guest contributor on CNBC, Peter regularly offers insights on global economic trends and markets. For the last year, Boockvar has also curated a blog titled "the Boock Report" that focuses on the same global economic trends.
According to Andy Schwartz, co-founder and principal of Bleakley Financial Group, "We couldn't be more pleased to have Peter and his team on board. Peter's background and experience will have a profound impact on our ability to scale our investment management business, provide our advisors with unique market insights and ultimately support the needs of our valued clients."
Says Boockvar of the new affiliation, "I'm very excited about the new opportunity. It's a natural progression for myself and my firm. We are confident that by partnering with Bleakley, we have found a platform fully capable of supporting our growth potential."
Contact:
Vincent Nauheimer
Office: 973-575-4180 x 336
vincent.nauheimer@bleakley.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/peter-boockvar-joins-bleakley-advisory-group-as-chief-investment-officer-300585987.html
SOURCE Bleakley Financial Group