CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Victory Capital Holdings, Inc. (“Victory Capital”) announced today that it has filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) relating to a proposed initial public offering of its Class A common stock. The number of shares to be offered and the price range for the proposed offering have not yet been determined. Victory Capital has applied to list its Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “VCTR.”
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy these securities be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. J.P. Morgan, BofA Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley are serving as joint lead book-running managers and as representatives of the underwriters for the proposed offering. Barclays, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and RBC Capital Markets are also acting as joint book-running managers for the proposed offering. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, A Stifel Company and William Blair are acting as co-managers for the proposed offering.
The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. Copies of the preliminary prospectus related to the offering may be obtained, when available, from J.P. Morgan, c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, or by calling toll-free at (866) 803 9204; BofA Merrill Lynch, Attention: Prospectus Department, 200 North College Street, 3rd Floor, Charlotte, NC 28255-0001, or via email: dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com ; or Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Attention: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2nd Floor, New York, New York 10014.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be a sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
ABOUT VICTORY CAPITAL
Victory Capital is an integrated multi-boutique asset management firm, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. The firm provides investment advisory services to institutional clients including corporations, nonprofits, public funds, Taft-Hartley and sub-advisory clients through separate accounts and commingled funds. Through its intermediary channel, Victory Capital also offers retail and retirement clients mutual funds and ETFs as well as separately managed accounts through wrap fee programs and access to its investment models through unified managed accounts.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006178/en/
Victory Capital Holdings, Inc.
Ryan Hoffman, 720-726-5433
victorypr@wearecsg.com
Source: Victory Capital Holdings, Inc.