BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- EBSCO Industries, Inc. (EBSCO), headquartered atop Oak Mountain off Highway 280, announced today that Ryan Loy is joining the company as Chief Information Officer (CIO), and will be reporting to David Walker, President and Chief Executive Officer. Loy comes to EBSCO from ADTRAN where he was CIO.
“As we plan for significant organic and acquisition growth over the next five to ten years, building the proper foundation of leadership is critical to creating and sustaining our momentum. We are delighted to have Ryan join our team,” said David Walker, CEO. “We look forward to his leadership in information technology—an important component in enabling our businesses to differentiate, grow, and create even more value for our customers.”
Having held leadership positions at Eli Lilly and Deloitte prior to ADTRAN, Loy joins EBSCO as an accomplished IT professional focused on building customer value through IT innovations.
“EBSCO has a long history of success and giving back to the community. The roadmap for the next several years will serve to continue to strengthen EBSCO. I’m humbled by this opportunity to lead IT and be a part of this organization,” said Ryan Loy. “I’m looking forward to working with the Corporate IT department and the EBSCO leadership team to uncover new ways for IT to add value for EBSCO customers.”
About EBSCO Industries, Inc.
Founded in 1944 by the late Elton B. Stephens, EBSCO Industries, Inc. has evolved into a global company with businesses in a range of industries including Information Services, Outdoor Brands, Real Estate, Manufacturing and Distribution, and Business Services. Headquartered in Birmingham, Ala., EBSCO operates divisions and subsidiaries in 23 countries and employs almost 6,000 people. EBSCO Information Services, the largest EBSCO business, is the leading provider of discovery services, databases, and other information resources for libraries worldwide. For a complete listing of EBSCO’s businesses, please visit www.ebscoind.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006574/en/
EBSCO Industries, Inc.
Karla M. Wiles, 205-980-6707
Vice President, Marketing Communications
kwiles@ebsco.com
Source: EBSCO Industries, Inc.