WEST CHESTER, Ohio, Jan. 19, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AK Steel (NYSE:AKS) said today that its Board of Directors has approved the following executive promotion, effective immediately: Christopher J. Ross, currently AK Steel Treasurer, has been named Vice President and Treasurer, overseeing the company’s Treasury, Investor Relations, Credit and Corporate Finance functions.
“I am pleased to welcome Chris to our executive team,” said Roger K. Newport, Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel. “This promotion brings additional strength and depth to AK Steel’s financial organization and to our senior leadership team.”
Mr. Ross began his AK Steel career in 1997 as a Cost Accountant at Middletown Works. He advanced through several financial positions including Financial Planning and Analysis, Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer. In 2016, Mr. Ross was named Treasurer.
Prior to joining AK Steel, he served as Director of Investor Relations for Omnicare, Inc. and held Credit and Portfolio Manager positions with Star Bank and Bank One. Mr. Ross holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and an MBA in Finance from the University of Cincinnati.
AK Steel
AK Steel is a leading producer of flat-rolled carbon, stainless and electrical steel products, primarily for the automotive, infrastructure and manufacturing, electrical power generation and distribution markets. Through its subsidiaries, the company also provides customer solutions with carbon and stainless steel tubing products, die design and tooling, and hot- and cold-stamped components. Headquartered in West Chester, Ohio (Greater Cincinnati), the company has approximately 9,200 employees at manufacturing operations across seven states (Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia), as well as in Canada and Mexico. Additional information about AK Steel is available at www.aksteel.com .
Contacts:
Media – Lisa H. Jester, Corporate Manager, Communications and Public Relations (513) 425-2510
Investors – Douglas O. Mitterholzer, General Manager, Investor Relations (513) 425-5215
Source:AK Steel