TARPON SPRINGS, Fla., Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Brian Buckley, Operations Manager of Thunder Energies Corporation, a publicly traded company with stock symbol (OTC:TNRG), today announced the appointment of Robert Devries as the Vice-President of Production. In his new role, Robert will oversee manufacturing and production of Directional Neutron Sources for Thunder Energies currently available in the U.S.A. and Europe for distribution the world over.
Dr. R. M. Santilli, CEO of Thunder Energies, states: "It is an immense pleasure to welcome Eng. Devries to the Thunder Energies team. Prior to his appointment as Vice President, Robert has performed a vital role in the finalization of the design and manufacturing of various components of our Directional Neutron Source. Prior to joining our team, Eng. Devries worked many years in design and manufacturing in the U.S.A. as well as in Italy and China.”
Dr. Santilli continues: "The appointment of Eng. Devries as Vice President for Manufacturing is particularly important because Thunder Energies recently signed an exclusive distributor agreement with a well-established Chinese Representation Agency that will offer our Directional Neutron Source throughout Asia" ( https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/01/10/1286640/0/en/Thunder-Energies-Announces-the-Signature-of-an-Exclusive-Distributor-Agreement-with-a-Chinese-Supplier-for-the-Sale-of-Directional-Neutron-Sources.html ).
Forward Looking Statements
The information provided in this presentation is covered by patent applications and other intellectual rights owed by Thunder Energies Corporation that hereby authorize their use without consultation provided authorization for any desired scientific research. Certain statements in this news release may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. All statements, other than statements of fact, included in this release, including, without limitation, statements regarding potential future plans and objectives of the company, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Technical complications, which may arise, could prevent the prompt implementation of any strategically significant plan(s) outlined above. The Company undertakes no duty to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Brian Buckley
Operations Manager
Brian@Thunder-Energies.com
Source:Thunder Energies Corporation