EditorsNote: minor edits
Anthony Davis torched the Celtics for 45 points and 16 rebounds as the New Orleans Pelicans snapped the Boston Celtics’ seven-game winning streak with a 116-113 overtime victory Tuesday night at TD Garden in Boston.
Davis’ monster night followed up his 48-point, 17-rebound performance in New York on Sunday. The four-time All-Star has scored at least 36 in three consecutive games.
Jrue Holiday had 23 points, DeMarcus Cousins added 19 points and 15 rebounds, and Ian Clark scored 15 to help the Pelicans win for the fifth time in seven games since the calendar turned.
Kyrie Irving paced the Eastern Conference-leading Celtics with 27 points. Marcus Smart and Jaylen Brown each chipped in 16 and Al Horford totaled 14 points, nine rebounds and six assists for Boston.
The Celtics set a franchise record with 50 3-point attempts, making 19.
Back-to-back jumpers from Holiday put New Orleans up 116-113 with 53 seconds left in overtime. After Cousins missed a turnaround jumper with 15.6 ticks left, Irving’s desperation 3-point attempt with 5.6 seconds left missed, and the Pelicans held on for the win.
Cousins’ 3-pointer as time expired in regulation was off target, forcing overtime with the game tied at 104.
Davis poured in 25 first-half points to help New Orleans stake a 58-48 halftime lead, and the Pelicans were up 87-80 after three.
His 45 points were the most scored against the Celtics this season.
Davis, who has long been involved in various trade rumors, downplayed talk of him being dealt to the Celtics before the game.
When asked about last month’s ESPN report quoting him saying he inquired with New Orleans’ front office about Boston trying to trade for him, Davis told reporters, “I haven’t had that conversation with my front office.”
Shortly after tip-off, the Celtics announced the passing of Hall of Fame point guard and NBA Finals MVP Jo Jo White, who died Tuesday at age 71 after a battle with cancer. White’s No. 10 is retired by the team.
New Orleans wraps up a three-game road trip Wednesday in Atlanta. Boston continues its three-game homestand Thursday against Philadelphia.
--Field Level Media
 