MIAMI, January 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Next Group Holdings, Inc. (OTCQB: NXGH) today announced that the Company has appointed Mr. Adiv Baruch to the position of Chief Strategy Officer, effective immediately. With more than 30 years' executive experience in high-tech, Baruch has served on NXGH's Board of Directors since 2016.
"Adiv's experience as an international technology innovator and practitioner, combined with his vast leadership, investment and management experience, makes him an invaluable asset as this Company enters a new chapter of growth, innovation and profitability," said Arik Maimon, Next Group Holdings CEO. "Adiv's wise counsel helped us tremendously in the 4 th Q 2017 completion of two large acquisitions - Limecom Inc. and SDI Next Distribution - and, he is a key proponent of the company's move into the Cryptocurrency marketplace via our recently announced Letter of Intent with Arbitrade Exchange Inc. ( World's First Cryptocurrency Gift Card to Launch ), that can change daily commerce for millions of unbanked/underbanked consumers."
"I have been working very intensively with the founders of NXGH over the last couple of years, and have come to realize this great team's vision for the fast-changing banking and financial services industry," said Baruch. "I'm honored to be part of this team, and to bring my global experience in the finance and technology fields to bear on what NXGH is accomplishing in the fin-tech space, and I am eager to help the Company meet its potential as an innovative leader in this industry."
Currently, Mr. Baruch serves as Chairman of Jerusalem Technology Investments Ltd. and Maayan Ventures, a platform for investments in innovative Israeli technology companies. He also serves as the Chairman of Covertix, whose patented technology delivers real-time, non-invasive control, protection, and tracking of confidential files, and as the Chairman of the Institute of Technology and Innovation, a leader in educating technology professionals and innovative entrepreneurs. In addition, he was recently named Chairman of the Israel Export & International Cooperation Institute.
Previously, Mr. Baruch served as Chairman of the public committee of the Hi-Tech and Telecom Division at the Israel Export and International Cooperation Institute (IEICI), and he was a member of the audit committee of the board of IEICI. He was one of the founders of Ness Technologies, which he helped grow Israel's first IT service company into a Global IT services firm.
Mr. Baruch served as President for Nyotron, a global cyber technology company, and was a director of the Bank of Jerusalem. He currently serves, or has served, on the boards of a variety of charitable organizations including Make-A-Wish Foundation, and he is currently the active Chairman of Or-Lachayal. Also, he has been an active member of the Young Presidents' organization (YPO). He remains involved with a number of companies traded on the U.S., Tel Aviv and Hong Kong exchanges.
Baruch holds an Engineering degree from The Technion, the leading engineering institute in Israel.
About Next Group Holdings, Inc.
NXGH is a corporation headquartered in Miami, Florida, which, through its operating subsidiaries, engages in the business of using proprietary technology and certain licensed technology to provide innovative mobile banking, mobility, and telecommunications solutions, including wireless MVNO, to underserved, unbanked, and emerging markets. NXGH's principal executive offices are located at 1111 Brickell Avenue, Suite 2200, Miami, Florida 33131, and its telephone number at that location is (800)611-3622. NXGH's web address is www.nextgroupholdings.com .
Contact :
for Next Group Holdings, Inc.:
Paul Gendreau
PGPR
paul@pgprmedia.com
+1-678-807-7945
SOURCE Next Group Holdings, Inc.