OTTAWA, Ontario, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Mitel ® (Nasdaq:MITL) (TSX:MNW), a global leader in business communications, today announced the appointment of Richard Roberts to oversee its EMEA channels, alongside leading the company's operations in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Roberts will be responsible for maintaining Mitel's #1 market share position in Europe 1 and accelerating growth by supporting channel partners in meeting demand for cloud-based communications and enabling businesses to embrace digital transformation.
Roberts brings over two decades of sales, product management, marketing and business development experience in the technology industry to the role. He joins Mitel from Purple, where he led the EMEA Sales and Worldwide Channels business, enabling customers to monetise their venues and facilities using Wi-Fi analytics. Prior to this, Roberts spent 14 years with Cisco Systems, helping build out the organisation's UK channel business, later holding a number of senior positions at the company.
Based in the UK, Roberts reports to Jeremy Butt, Mitel Senior Vice President of EMEA.
Quote: s
"As customers of all sizes increasingly turn to cloud technologies to provide a path to the future, it's important we are able to support end-users while empowering our channel partners on their transformation journey," said Jeremy Butt, Mitel SVP of EMEA. "Richard's dual role will enable him to drive forward our expanded UK and Ireland business, while ensuring the EMEA-wide channel strategy is best suited to customers' needs. Given his wealth of experience in this space, I have no doubt Richard will excel in the role."
"As a market leader in EMEA, Mitel is in a strong position to help businesses increase productivity and improve customer experience. Through cloud-enabled communications and collaboration, we will be able to help channels meet customers' needs for new ways to buy and consume unified communications and collaboration (UCC) services," said Richard Roberts, Mitel VP for UK/IR and EMEA Channels.
About Mitel
A global market leader in business communications powering more than two billion business connections, Mitel (Nasdaq:MITL) (TSX:MNW) helps businesses and service providers connect, collaborate and provide innovative services to their customers. Our innovation and communications experts serve more than 70 million business users in more than 100 countries. For more information, go to www.mitel.com and follow us on Twitter @Mitel.
Mitel is the registered trademark of Mitel Networks Corporation.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
MITL-C
Contact Information
Media – Americas/APAC
Camille Beasley
469-212-0433
camille.beasley@mitel.com
Media – EMEA
Sandrine Quinton
+33 (0)130-964-301
sandrine.quinton@mitel.com
Investors
Michael McCarthy
469-574-8134
michael.mccarthy@mitel.com
Industry Analysts
Denise Hogberg
469-212-0434
denise.hogberg@mitel.com
1 MZA, Call Control Quarterly Performance, Q3 2017
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mitel-appoints-richard-roberts-as-vice-president-for-ukireland-and-emea-channels-300579534.html
SOURCE Mitel