January 17, 2018 / 3:57 PM / Updated 13 minutes ago Special Report: The fabulous story of North Korea's fabric made of stone Ju-min Park , James Pearson 15 Min Read 
SEOUL (Reuters) - For much of the world, it’s a niche product. In North Korea, where winter temperatures are frigid and which cannot produce enough cotton or wool for clothing, the synthetic fiber developed after nylon was glorified as a revolutionary invention. 
Known outside North Korea as vinylon, it was christened “vinalon” by founder Kim Il Sung. He ordered it be developed to put clothes on people’s backs. 
It’s a story which reveals much about the history of North Korea. 
The state says the fiber symbolizes its self-reliance, but diplomatic records show the project was less successful than Kim hoped - Pyongyang was more dependent on others than it claimed. 
The North Korean government does not provide foreign media with a point of contact in Pyongyang and the state’s delegation to the United Nations did not respond to a request for comment. 
See interactive story here: here 
More in-depth stories about North Korea here: www.reuters.com/north-korea WONDER FABRIC 
The global vinylon fiber industry was worth $443 million in 2016 and is projected to reach $539 million by 2022, according to Orbis Research. Swedish outdoor clothing company Fjällräven uses a form of vinylon, Vinylon F from Japan, in products including the Kånken backpack. 
Fjällräven does not source material from North Korea, a company spokesman said. 
Companies in Japan and China make vinylon based on petroleum. But North Korea has no oil reserves. Instead it makes vinalon from two commodities it has in abundance: coal and limestone. 
The process starts with workers mining anthracite and breaking limestones. 
Vinalon dates back to 1939, two years after DuPont of the United States introduced nylon, and with it affordable stockings, American glamor and movie stars. 
At the time, North Korea was part of Japan and nylon was undercutting Japanese silk and cotton exports. A Korean scientist was on the team that developed an alternative fiber. His name was Ri Sung Gi. 
Ri’s invention starts out as hard, white crystals that look like sea salt. But once drawn out and spun into a thread, it acquires a texture like cotton. It is stiff and hard to dye, but strong. 
It was promising. But two wars interrupted Ri’s efforts to develop his fabric. 
In 1948, after World War Two, North Korea became a Communist state. 
The North Koreans invaded the South and in the ensuing three years, the U.S. bombed Pyongyang. Around 2.5 million soldiers and civilians died on both sides, according to South Korea’s defense ministry. 
In 1953, the Korean War paused with a truce. 
Ri wanted to help rebuild. He offered to develop his fabric in South Korea. The South, which was allied with the United States, was not interested. 
At this time, all Soviet states were driving for technological prowess. The North was courting foreign scientists, and it did what it could to keep hold of them. 
Ri defected. North Korea likened him to Marie Curie, the French chemist who developed the theory of radioactivity. 
“To bore a hole into the heart of U.S. imperialism, I have been peering through microscopes and shaking my test tubes with determination,” Ri Sung Gi wrote in his memoirs. JUCHE! 
The Soviet Union was forging ahead. On April 12, 1961 Russian Cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin beat America to be the first man in space. Josef Stalin sponsored Kim Il Sung as founder of North Korea. 
Under Japanese rule, the North had received more investment in heavy industry than the South and it had ample energy. 
But North Korea needed overcoats for its people, Kim told the Soviet ambassador, A.M. Puzanov. “If we do not solve the clothing problem it will be hard to compete with the South,” he said, according to Puzanov’s journal. The Soviet Union could not help supply cotton. 
Ri had proven in lab tests that vinalon could be made. Kim saw the fiber as a political tool. 
He created an ideology of self reliance known as Juche. The word translates literally as “subject,” but stands for the notion that man is the master of his own destiny. 
Kim said vinalon was the “juche fiber.” 
“The vinalon industry is the shining fruition that the Juche idea of our Party was reflected in the field of chemical industry,” Kim said in 1967. 
On May 6 1961, he held an opening ceremony for the February 8 Vinalon Plant in Hamhung, in South Hamgyong province. Kim was telling his allies North Korea could produce 10,000 tonnes of vinalon a year and would soon be producing more than 300 million meters of textiles a year, according to documents in the Wilson Center archive. 
The factory, built by a division of the Korean People’s Army working on three shifts of 3,000 people, went up so quickly that the triumphal phrase “vinalon speed” emerged in state propaganda. 
Looking at the first vinalon strands, Ri said they were “white as snow and lighter than a dandelion puff.” 
Kim Sung-hee, a North Korean who defected to the South, said she attended the ribbon-cutting ceremony. 
“Inside the factory I saw pink and red jackets. Even after 15 years, the vinalon jackets did not get frayed, although the colors could change a bit,” she said. 
Defectors born before the 1980s said they used to wear jackets, school uniforms and socks made of vinalon. 
The fiber was part of an industrial drive like the one Mao Zedong launched in China. North Korea’s effort was known as Chollima. Embodied by a Flying Horse, it galvanized workers into skipping breaks to boost productivity, helped by slogans such as “drink no soup.” 
In 1961 Kim Il Sung met his Chinese comrade Deng Xiaoping and told him North Korea had “already succeeded” in producing vinalon to ease the country’s clothing problem. Deng said the process demanded electricity. But Kim was not worried. 
“We won’t need to use electricity in future. We can use oxygen,” Kim said. 
THE PEOPLE‘S ECONOMY 
In the early 1960s, as an anti-Communist coup in South Korea and the Cuban missile crisis sent North Korea down a path of military buildup, the economy was growing fast. 
An economist at Cambridge University in England, Joan Robinson, visited in 1964 and wrote that “all the economic miracles of the postwar world are put into the shade” by what she saw, including vinalon. She recorded the formula for making it. 
The North grew faster than the South - a trend which continued into the 1970s, according to U.N. and CIA economic data. 
In 1972, the CIA recorded figures from 1956-1971 which showed the North had produced 7 million more meters of textiles than the South. In the early years the North’s output of fish products, coal, iron ore, steel, cement, chemical fertilisers and tractors also exceeded that of the South. 
The CIA figures show that until the mid 1960s, the North consistently exported more than the South in dollar terms. FILE PHOTO: North Korean leader Kim Jong-il (C) visits the February 8 Vinalon Complex in Hamheung, northeast of Pyongyang in this photo released by North Korea's KCNA news agency February 10, 2010. KCNA did not state when the picture was taken. The Korean characters read: "Improvement of people's lives". REUTERS/KCNA/File Photo KING OF FIBERS 
North Koreans called vinalon “the King of Fibers” and featured it in cartoons to teach children how independent and successful the country was. 
A TV show from 1976 shows