New CHRO to Build and Scale an Employee Experience To Prepare the Company for its Next Phase of Growth
SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Nutanix ® (NASDAQ: NTNX ), a leader in enterprise cloud computing, today announced that it has named Aaron Bean as Chief Human Resources Officer. Bean brings deep expertise in building transformational employee experiences and leading global operations to the role, and he will be responsible for the company’s global people and places operations as the company seeks to scale an employee experience designed to continue to attract, support and grow top talent.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005240/en/
Aaron Bean (Photo: Business Wire)
“Aaron is an expert in building great employee experiences, and I’m excited to add him to our team as we seek to scale our global workforce and strengthen our open and driven corporate culture,” said Dheeraj Pandey, CEO, Nutanix. “His addition to the team adds employee-centric expertise to our executive team, and will help us continue to grow our outstanding employee base and attract hungry and driven new talent.”
A Place Where Employees Are Constantly Learning
Bean will be responsible for all aspects of the Nutanix employee experience, including recruiting, training, compensation, benefits, engagement and facilities. Having successfully scaled other fast growing technology companies’ people and places operations globally, his mandate is to build on the company’s success in creating an open and driven culture where grassroots thrive, and employees are constantly evolving.
Bean brings to Nutanix more than 20 years of experience in leading employee engagement and satisfaction initiatives at both public and private companies. He most recently served as Vice President of Human Resources at Skyhigh Networks, where he led employee recruitment and retention efforts, supporting international expansion for the Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB) leader. Prior to Skyhigh, he led the human resources function for Aruba Networks, where he scaled the startup from 150 employees and $30 million in annual revenue into a global public company with approximately 1,700 employees and more than $700 million in annual revenue, before its eventual sale to Hewlett Packard. Before joining Aruba, Bean ran the human resources function for Juniper Networks’ Security group as it completed back-to-back acquisitions of NetScreen and Neoteris. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of Human Resources and Corporate Services at Alteon WebSystems, where he managed human resources, real estate and IT functions for the company as it grew from a venture-funded startup into a multi-billion dollar public company, before its acquisition by Nortel Networks. Bean holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Southern California.
“I am thrilled to join Nutanix, an industry leader that is transforming the world of IT, and a company whose core values -- Hungry, Humble, Honest -- align well with my own,” said Bean. “By bringing a holistic perspective to managing the people and places operations -- including recruiting, retention, locations, workspaces, diversity, perks and safety -- I believe we can further extend the company’s reputation as a great place for builders, scalers and dreamers.”
About Nutanix
Nutanix makes infrastructure invisible, elevating IT to focus on the applications and services that power their business. The Nutanix Enterprise Cloud OS software leverages web-scale engineering and consumer-grade design to natively converge compute, virtualization and storage into a resilient, software-defined solution with rich machine intelligence. The result is predictable performance, cloud-like infrastructure consumption, robust security, and seamless application mobility for a broad range of enterprise applications and services. Learn more at www.nutanix.com or follow us on Twitter @nutanix .
© 2018 Nutanix, Inc. All rights reserved. Nutanix and the Nutanix logo are trademarks of Nutanix, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005240/en/
Nutanix
Lena Rogow, 415-218-3773
lena.rogow@nutanix.com
Source: Nutanix