EDISON, N.J., Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tenna , the technology company that empowers construction companies to find more value across their inventory of equipment, vehicles and physical assets, today announced the recent appointment of William Molesworth as Vice President, Corporate Development. Molesworth reports to Austin Conti , Co-Founder and CEO, Tenna.
William Molesworth-Vice President, Corporate Development.
In this new role, Molesworth is responsible for building innovative distribution and partner channels for Tenna and for forging strategic alliances within the Internet of Things (IoT) industry that will accelerate the company’s growth and development.
“With more than 15 years of experience in the IoT space, Bill has a wealth of experience forging partnerships with wireless carriers, IoT solutions companies, large OEMs and distributors,” said Conti. “We’re thrilled Bill’s joining Tenna as his deep channel development experience will help bolster our go-to-market strategy and will help reinforce our efforts of establishing Tenna as a leading IoT brand,” said Conti.
Prior to joining Tenna, Molesworth served as Vice President of the North American OEM and VAR Channel Business at Orbcomm, where he was responsible for sales of cellular airtime and satellite data and terminals to customers ranging in size from small IoT solutions providers to major global OEMs. While at Orbcomm, Molesworth established the cellular wireless business, Orbcomm Connect, and formed strategic alliances with the world’s largest wireless carriers to create one of the leading providers of SIM cards and airtime subscriptions globally. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from Rider University.
About Tenna™
Tenna, www.tenna.com , is an Internet of Things (IoT) technology company that helps industrial organizations find more value from their equipment and physical assets. Tenna delivers comprehensive industrial asset tracking and analytics to clients in construction, equipment rental, logistics, transportation and utilities who seek to control and optimize their business. Clients rely on Tenna solutions to track and manage inventories of critical equipment, vehicles and materials, and gain increased control and maximum efficiency of their physical assets. Follow us on Twitter , join the discussion on the Tenna Blog and connect with Tenna on LinkedIn Facebook and YouTube .
Tenna, the Tenna logo and Find More are trademarks of Tenna LLC., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Media Contact:
Colette Cote for Tenna
(844) 929-6384
ccote@tenna.com
@ColetteCote
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/b533ce08-d4d4-48c9-a835-9f53a414dfea
Source: Tenna