DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- TransMontaigne Partners L.P. (NYSE:TLP) announced today that it declared a distribution of $0.77 per unit for the period from October 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, representing a $0.015 increase over the previous quarter. The distribution is payable on February 8, 2018 to unitholders of record on January 31, 2018.
“This marks our ninth consecutive quarter of distribution growth, and reflects a 2.0% increase over the previous quarter as well as an 8.5% increase over the distribution paid for the fourth quarter of 2016,” said Fred Boutin, Chief Executive Officer of TransMontaigne Partners. “We are pleased to continue distribution growth at an attractive rate, supported by the success we have achieved in executing on our growth objectives, along with the overall stability of our operations and cash flows.”
About TransMontaigne Partners L.P.
TransMontaigne Partners L.P. is a terminaling and transportation company based in Denver, Colorado with operations in the United States along the Gulf Coast, in the Midwest, in Houston and Brownsville, Texas, along the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, the Southeast and in Northern California. We provide integrated terminaling, storage, transportation and related services for customers engaged in the distribution and marketing of light refined petroleum products, heavy refined petroleum products, crude oil, chemicals, fertilizers and other liquid products. Light refined products include gasolines, diesel fuels, heating oil and jet fuels; heavy refined products include residual fuel oils and asphalt. We do not purchase or market products that we handle or transport. News and additional information about TransMontaigne Partners L.P. is available on our website: www.transmontaignepartners.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006037/en/
TransMontaigne Partners L.P.
Frederick W. Boutin, CEO
or
Robert T. Fuller, CFO
303-626-8200
Source: TransMontaigne Partners L.P.