DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Norton Rose Fulbright today announced that Todd A. Schroeder, a well-respected tax lawyer with significant experience advising a broad array of clients on complex tax planning and tax structuring matters, has joined the global law firm as a partner in its Dallas office. He comes to Norton Rose Fulbright from Baker McKenzie.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005877/en/
Todd A. Schroeder, Norton Rose Fulbright (Photo: Business Wire)
Schroeder focuses his practice on complex domestic and international mergers and acquisitions, dispositions, corporate restructurings, leveraged buyouts, private equity transactions, the tax aspects of securities offerings and like-kind exchanges. He also regularly advises clients on global tax planning for corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and other pass-through entities.
Daryl Lansdale, Norton Rose Fulbright’s US Managing Partner, said:
“Todd handles a wide array of challenging tax matters for clients and corporations of all sizes, many of which are in the energy sector. His impressive skillset strengthens Norton Rose Fulbright’s position as a leading law firm in tax.”
Gene Lewis, Norton Rose Fulbright’s US Head of Business Practice, commented:
“Todd is a skilled lawyer, experienced in dealing with complicated tax issues domestically and abroad. His diverse capabilities will greatly benefit our clients.”
Schroeder, who also counsels taxpayers through all aspects of tax audits, appeals, competent authority matters and the tax issues associated with bankruptcy, said:
“I am eager to work with Norton Rose Fulbright clients both in the US and around the world. This is truly a great match, and I am excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.”
Schroeder received his JD from the University Of Alabama School Of Law and his BS from Auburn University. He is admitted to practice in Texas, Alabama and the District of Columbia.
Notes for editors:
Norton Rose Fulbright
Norton Rose Fulbright is a global law firm providing the world’s preeminent corporations and financial institutions with a full business law service. The firm has more than 4,000 lawyers and other legal staff based in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia.
Recognized for its industry focus, Norton Rose Fulbright is strong across all the key industry sectors: financial institutions; energy; infrastructure, mining and commodities; transport; technology and innovation; and life sciences and healthcare. Through its global risk advisory group, the firm leverages its industry experience with its knowledge of legal, regulatory, compliance and governance issues to provide clients with practical solutions to the legal and regulatory risks facing their businesses.
Norton Rose Fulbright operates in accordance with its global business principles of quality, unity and integrity, aiming to provide the highest possible standard of legal service in each of its offices and to maintain that level of quality at every point of contact.
Norton Rose Fulbright Verein, a Swiss verein, helps coordinate the activities of Norton Rose Fulbright members but does not itself provide legal services to clients. Norton Rose Fulbright has offices in more than 50 cities worldwide, including London, Houston, New York, Toronto, Mexico City, Hong Kong, Sydney and Johannesburg. For more information, see nortonrosefulbright.com/legal-notices .
Law around the world
nortonrosefulbright.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005877/en/
For further information, please contact:
Norton Rose Fulbright
Dan McKenna, +1 713-651-3576
National Director of Communications
dan.mckenna@nortonrosefulbright.com
Source: Norton Rose Fulbright