51 COMMENTS WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday directing U.S. military officials to keep Guantanamo Bay operating, reversing a 2009 order by former President Barack Obama to close the facility.
Mr. Trump’s order affirms that the detention center, established by former President George W. Bush after the 2001 terrorist attacks, may be used for detaining new prisoners. No new detainee has been sent to Guantanamo since 2008.
Mr. Obama argued that the detention center served as a recruitment tool for terrorists and represented a drag on the federal budget. It costs about $400 million annually to run the facility, which is part of a U.S. naval base.
In his State of the Union speech Tuesday, Mr. Trump said his directive to keep the prison open stemmed from concerns about releasing terrorists to the battlefield and the need to maintain efforts to “annihilate” terrorists. He cited Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who spent time in an American prison in Iraq during the Iraq war.
“Today, I am keeping another promise,” Mr. Trump said in the address. “I just signed an order directing Secretary (Jim) Mattis to re-examine our military detention policy and to keep open the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay.”
President Donald Trump's first State of the Union focused on infrastructure, immigration and the strength of Americans. Watch the highlights in three minutes. Photo: Getty More than 700 prisoners have been held at the site since it opened after Sept. 11, 2001, including some of the plotters of the Sept. 11 attacks, though few have been put on trial under a system of military commission proceedings instituted during the Bush administration.
The Obama administration negotiated the transfer of 201 detainees, reducing the population to 41 prisoners from 242 in 2009. The Bush administration released 532 detainees.
The shift ordered by Mr. Trump will have few immediate practical effects. Mr. Obama was never able to follow through with his early pledge to shutter the prison, in part because he faced strong opposition from Congress.
At the same time, the Trump administration hasn’t kept up with the Obama administration’s effort to whittle down the population of prisoners by sending those cleared for release home or to third countries.
Newsletter Sign-up Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has proposed eliminating the position of special envoy working to close the prison as part of his plans to reorganize the State Department.
Mr. Trump had long expressed skepticism of Mr. Obama’s efforts, and on the campaign trail Mr. Trump referred to Guantanamo Bay by pledging to “load it up with some bad dudes.”
Before taking office, Mr. Trump had criticized the Obama administration’s efforts to whittle down the prison population at the detention center. “There should be no further releases from Gitmo. These are extremely dangerous people and should not be allowed back onto the battlefield,” Mr. Trump wrote in a tweet last January.
Write to Felicia Schwartz at Felicia.Schwartz@wsj.com