NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Harvest Partners, LP (“Harvest” or “the Firm”) is pleased to announce it has named two new partners in its structured capital business effective January 8, 2018. The new partners – Steven Duke and Sean Murphy – co-lead the strategy and were formerly Managing Directors. Structured capital is Harvest’s non- control senior equity product.
Mr. Duke joined Harvest in 2014 and serves on the board of LAZ Parking.
Mr. Murphy joined Harvest in 2016 and serves on the boards of GPM Investments, Roland Foods and OTG Management.
Of the new appointments, Thomas Arenz, partner of Harvest Partners, said, “We are pleased to recognize Steve and Sean and welcome them as our partners. Their contributions in growing structured capital have expanded the range of financing options for middle market businesses and have strengthened our firm’s investment program.”
About Harvest Partners
Founded in 1981, Harvest Partners ( www.harvestpartners.com ) is a leading New York-based private equity investment firm pursuing management buyouts and recapitalizations of middle market companies in North America. Harvest focuses on acquiring profitable companies in the business services and consumer, healthcare services, industrial services, and manufacturing and distribution sectors. This strategy leverages Harvest Partners’ more than 35 years of experience in financing organic and acquisition-oriented growth companies.
About Harvest Partners SCF
Harvest Partners SCF ( www.hp-scf.com ) is a non-control private equity investor. Harvest Partners SCF was founded in 2014 and is led by an experienced team of investment professionals who have, collectively, more than 50 years of private equity investment experience. Harvest Partners SCF provides flexible, non-control equity solutions to business owners and private equity firms that need capital for growth, liquidity, new platform investments or transformative acquisitions.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005673/en/
Harvest Partners SCF, LP
Marketing and Investor Relations:
April Blackmon Meyer, 212-379-9135
ameyer@harvestpartners.com
or
Media Relations:
Owen Blicksilver Public Relations, Inc.
Caroline Luz, 203-656-2829
caroline@blicksilverpr.com
Source: Harvest Partners, LP