Combination strengthens analytics and insights capabilities and expands national presence
CHICAGO & PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Digital transformation agency HS2 Solutions today announced that it has completed the acquisition of LunaMetrics, an award-winning analytics consultancy that specializes in using data to help businesses illuminate the bridge between marketing, user behavior and ROI. The acquisition brings an industry-leading digital and web analytics consulting offering to HS2’s broad range of digital transformation capabilities across strategy, development, e-commerce, experience design, and digital marketing.
LunaMetrics serves a diverse group of leading marketers and brands including BJ’s Wholesale Club, CareerBuilder, Caterpillar, GNC, Leading Hotels of the World, PBS, and Teach for America, and is a Google Analytics Certified Partner and Google Premier Partner. LunaMetrics leverages insights and deep digital expertise to help clients personalize and improve digital experiences as well as optimize their digital advertising strategy.
“LunaMetrics has been on the leading edge of digital analytics for over a decade, and founder and CEO Robbin Steif has built a world-class, results-driven team that bolsters our talent base and strengthens our digital marketing strategy and analytics and insights practices tremendously,” said Phil Hollyer , HS2 Solutions co-founder and CEO.
With the addition of LunaMetrics, HS2 Solutions, which was founded and is headquartered in Chicago, also expands its physical presence. In addition to its two Chicago-based collaboration centers and team hubs in Green Bay and Detroit, HS2 Solutions now has a stronghold in Pittsburgh and access to talent in the city’s vibrant tech community.
“HS2 Solutions has an unmatched reputation in our industry,” Steif said. “With their seasoned team, they have amassed an exceptional portfolio of long-term client partnerships and sophisticated digital service offerings. By combining forces, we are able to expand our offerings to our customers and create additional career opportunities for our people.”
Steif founded LunaMetrics in 2004, has served on the Board of Directors for the Digital Analytics Association, is a winner of the Business Women First award, and is a recipient of the Diamond Award for business leadership.
“This dynamic partnership strengthens our ability to glean rich user behavior insights that will allow us to envision and build superior digital experiences that delight customers and deliver business results to our clients,” said HS2 Solutions co-founder and president Keith Schwartz. “We are thrilled to welcome the entire LunaMetrics team to HS2 Solutions.”
In November 2016, HS2 Solutions announced that it was being backed by Mountaingate Capital, a leading middle-market private equity investment firm, to accelerate continued growth through business acquisitions, talent additions, national expansion, and increased services.
About HS2 Solutions
HS2 Solutions is a full-service digital transformation agency that creates digital brand experiences that transform behavior and drive results. HS2 Solutions has capabilities within five primary service lines including strategy; digital experience platforms (eCommerce, web, and mobile development); experience design; digital marketing and audience management; and analytics and insights. HS2 Solutions prides itself on forming problem-solving partnerships with their clients to envision, design, and build their digital futures. For more information, please visit www.hs2solutions.com .
For the most up-to-date news, follow HS2 Solutions on Twitter , LinkedIn , Facebook , and Instagram .
About LunaMetrics
LunaMetrics is a leading analytics and digital marketing strategy consultancy. In addition to being a Google Analytics Certified Sales and Support Partner, they offer a number of customer-tailored services, including data science solutions, digital advertising strategy, conversion rate optimization, and nation-wide public training sessions and workshops on a variety of Google products for different skill levels. LunaMetrics works closely with their clients to evaluate their mountains of data to make smart decisions. For more information, please visit www.lunametrics.com and follow on Twitter , LinkedIn , Facebook , or Google+ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005893/en/
HS2 Solutions
Sarah Baker
(773) 296-2600
sarah.baker@hs2solutions.com
Source: HS2 Solutions