NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ubiquity Global Services, a multinational business services organization, today announced the hiring of Casey McGuane to serve as the company's new executive vice president. Mr. McGuane will add significant strategic value to the company in a variety of areas including executive administration and strategic client relations.
Mr. McGuane brings deep executive experience to Ubiquity. Most recently, Casey McGuane served as the chief operating officer and executive vice president of BankMobile, a financial technology and digital bank services division of Customers Bank. Prior to that and during his 15-year tenure he served as chief operating officer and executive vice president of Higher One Holdings, an EdTech financial payments company.
"After years of working with Ubiquity on the client side, I am excited to join the company and work to help continue moving the organization forward," said Mr. McGuane. "Matt Nyren and his talented team share my focus of delivering world class customer service while also serving as a leading provider of innovative client solutions to the business process outsourcing marketplace."
Ubiquity president and chief executive officer Matt Nyren added that "I've had the good fortune to partner closely with Casey during his tenure with BankMobile and Higher One, and I couldn't be any more excited to have him onboard. Casey has a distinguished track record managing operations for a successful public corporation, and his professional experience will serve Ubiquity well. I look forward to partnering with Casey to help solidify Ubiquity's position as the leading outsourcer for the FinTech industry while working together to expand our company's footprint in complementary business verticals."
About Ubiquity Global Services
Ubiquity Global Services, Inc. ( www.ubiquitygs.com ) is a multinational outsourcing organization delivering a wide variety of support services designed to improve customer satisfaction while reducing operating costs. The company's offering includes live customer experience management services, interactive voice response (IVR) solutions, multi-channel correspondence servicing and risk management solutions. Ubiquity has developed a next-generation technology platform engineered for operational excellence while delivering its clients meaningful and actionable business intelligence. Headquartered in New York City, the company's expanding network includes service delivery locations from six countries in Europe, Asia and the Americas. Together with its clients, Ubiquity is pioneering a new approach for maximizing the potential of every customer contact.
Contact:
Ubiquity Global Services
Contact: Stuart Littler
Phone: +1 646-679-4903
Email: stuart.littler@ubiquitygs.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ubiquity-global-services-names-casey-mcguane-as-executive-vice-president-300579993.html
SOURCE Ubiquity Global Services