SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Restoration Robotics, Inc. (NASDAQ:HAIR), announced today that Chris Aronson will join the Company as Vice President of Sales, effective February 1, 2018. Mr. Aronson brings with him nearly 15 years of sales, management, operations, and public company experience within the aesthetic industry.
Ryan Rhodes, Chief Executive Officer of Restoration Robotics, said, “We are excited to welcome Chris to our leadership team and are enthusiastic to immediately leverage his deep knowledge and expertise selling aesthetic capital equipment with consumable components. We look forward to partnering with Chris to drive our efforts and expand our sales infrastructure, enhance our marketing initiatives, and further develop our existing customer relationships while building new ones.”
Mr. Aronson commented, “I am excited to join the team at Restoration Robotics and to begin working to optimize efforts to drive the broad adoption of the ARTAS ® Robotic Hair Restoration System. I look forward to making valuable contributions to the planning and execution of the company’s sales and marketing strategies.”
Most recently, Mr. Aronson served as Senior Vice President of Sales, North America at Cynosure, a leading developer and manufacturer of a broad array of medical device systems in the laser aesthetic industry. At Cynosure, Mr. Aronson was responsible for developing and executing novel go-to-market strategies and product launches while optimizing product positioning, sales growth, utilization, and customer satisfaction. Mr. Aronson worked at Cynosure for nearly 14 years in a number of capacities with increasing responsibility and was ultimately promoted to his most recent position as Senior Vice President. Prior to Cynosure, Mr. Aronson served as a Sports Medicine Specialist at Stryker Corporation. Mr. Aronson received a Bachelor of Arts from George Mason University.
About Restoration Robotics
Restoration Robotics, Inc., is a medical device company developing and commercializing the ARTAS™ Robotic Hair Restoration System. We believe the ARTAS System is the first and only physician-assisted system to dissect, and assist in the harvesting of, follicular units directly from the scalp and create recipient implant sites using proprietary algorithms. The Company has unique expertise in machine vision, image guidance, visual servoing and robotics, as well as developing intuitive interfaces to manage these technologies.
Media Contact
Lisa Markle
Director of Marketing
Restoration Robotics, Inc.
+1- 408-883-6764
lisam@restorationrobotics.com
Investor Contact
The Ruth Group
Lee Roth & Brian Johnston
ir@restorationrobotics.com
646-536-7000
Source:Restoration Robotics