BOSTON, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Eaton Vance Management (International) Limited (EVMI), a subsidiary of Eaton Vance Corp. (NYSE: EV), today announced an agreement to hire a five-person global fixed-income team led by Astrid Vogler that was formerly employed by Oechsle International Advisors, LLC (Oechsle), a privately held investment manager. The team joins Eaton Vance Management's Global Income group, which is co-led by Michael Cirami, CFA, and Eric Stein, CFA. Ms. Vogler joins as vice president and lead portfolio manager of EVMI, reporting to Messrs. Cirami and Stein. Roman Kostal joins as vice president and portfolio manager, reporting to Ms. Vogler. The team currently advises approximately $830 million and will continue to be based in Frankfurt, Germany.
"The hiring of the former Oechsle fixed-income team in Frankfurt is a meaningful extension of our global fixed-income investment management and client service capabilities," said Payson F. Swaffield, CFA, Chief Income Investment Officer, Eaton Vance Management. "Located in the largest economy in the eurozone, the team's focus on developed fixed-income markets globally complements our strong research and investment capabilities in emerging and frontier markets."
The Frankfurt global income team will continue to advise its legacy client mandates, which have been assumed by Eaton Vance.
"Establishing a branch office in Germany positions Eaton Vance to better address client needs globally and enhances the service levels we can provide clients across Europe," said Thomas Body, business development director for Germany and Austria at EVMI. "Astrid and her team share a common investment philosophy with the Eaton Vance Global Income group and will benefit from access to the group's world-class 24-hour trading capability, further positioning us for investment success and future growth."
With the addition of the Frankfurt team, the Eaton Vance Global Income group now comprises 45 employees in four locations around the world and manages $17 billion in client assets. The group employs a disciplined approach to analyzing global capital markets to identify incremental return opportunities in both rising and falling interest-rate environments. The group's strategy focuses on fundamental country analysis, rigorous security selection, portfolio construction and trade implementation, and a disciplined approach to risk management.
Prior to joining Eaton Vance, Ms. Vogler was a Principal and Head of Fixed Income at Oechsle for 27 years. Before joining Oechsle, she was a Vice President at ABD International Management Corporation, a subsidiary of Dresdner Bank. Ms. Vogler began her investment career more than 30 years ago at Dresdner Bank, initially serving as an investment advisor to private clients.
Mr. Kostal was a Principal and Fixed Income Portfolio Manager and Research Analyst at Oechsle for 17 years. He previously served as a portfolio manager and analyst on the global fixed-income team for Deutsche Asset Management in Frankfurt. Mr. Kostal has more than 20 years of investment experience, beginning his career at Nicholas Stark Bank in Regensburg, Germany.
About Eaton Vance
Eaton Vance Corp. (NYSE: EV) is a leading global asset manager whose history dates to 1924. With offices in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia, Eaton Vance and its affiliates managed $432.3 billion ($USD) as of December 31, 2017, offering individuals and institutions a broad array of investment strategies and wealth management solutions. The Company's long record of providing exemplary service, timely innovation and attractive returns through a variety of market conditions has made Eaton Vance the investment manager of choice for many of today's most discerning investors. For more information, visit eatonvance.com .
Eaton Vance Management (International) Limited (EVMI) is registered in England and Wales. Registered Office: 125 Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1AR. EVMI is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. EVMI's branch office in Germany has been approved as a branch office by the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin).
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/eaton-vance-adds-global-fixed-income-team-in-germany-300590955.html
SOURCE Eaton Vance Corp.