NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- DoubleVerify, the leading independent provider of digital media measurement software and analytics, announced the opening of their new offices in Singapore, to accelerate the company's growth across the Asia-Pacifc region. In conjunction, Jordan Khoo has been appointed Managing Director, APAC, to lead the expanded operations across the region. These initiatives mark DoubleVerify's latest advancements in promoting digital media quality and brand safety on an international scale.
"DoubleVerify's expansion into Asia is a natural next step for our company," said Wayne Gattinella, president and CEO. "We are committed to delivering a seamless solution that protects the brand safety and media integrity of our clients around the globe. I'm excited to welcome Jordan Khoo, who has the industry experience and market knowledge to quickly contribute to our Asia-Pacific growth."
Khoo comes to DoubleVerify with nearly two decades in digital marketing and business development across the Asia-Pacific region. Khoo previously served as Vice President-APAC for Sizmek/MediaMind for the last 11 years. During his tenure he helped build and grow strong relationships with brands, agencies and digital media platforms across the region.
"Today's media landscape has made brand safety and digital ad fraud a highly visible issue around the world," said Khoo. "I look forward to supporting our customers and partners in the region to drive better ROI from their digital media investment and protecting their brand equity."
About DoubleVerify
DoubleVerify is the leading independent provider of marketing measurement software, data and analytics that authenticates the quality and effectiveness of digital media for the world's largest brands and media platforms. DV provides media transparency and accountability to deliver the highest level of impression quality for maximum advertising performance. Since 2008, DV has helped hundreds of Fortune 500 companies gain the most from their media spend by delivering best in class solutions across the digital ecosystem that help build a better industry. Learn more at doubleverify.com .
Press Contact
Susan Zemlyakova
212-631-2022
susan.zemlyakova@doubleverify.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/doubleverify-opens-asia-pacific-operations-in-singapore-300590730.html
SOURCE DoubleVerify