NEW YORK, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. ("Oppenheimer") – a leading wealth manager and investment bank and a subsidiary of Oppenheimer Holdings (NYSE: OPY) – today announced a continued emphasis on the Firm's healthcare business, including significant investments across its healthcare investment banking, research, and institutional equity sales teams.
In 2017, the Firm added a new Life Sciences team within the Healthcare Investment Banking group led by Michael A. Margolis , R.Ph. who serves as Managing Director and Co-Head of Healthcare Investment Banking, along with Marc Cabrera who leads the Healthcare Services and Digital Health team. Recent additions to the team also include:
Stefan D. Loren, Ph. D., Managing Director, Healthcare : Dr. Loren has held positions on both the buy-side and sell-side, as well as corporate positions within the pharmaceutical and biotech industry. His deep relationships and domain expertise complement the firm's overall banking efforts. Eric Tansky, Managing Director, Healthcare : Mr. Tansky specializes in medical devices, and throughout his career has executed over 40 M&A and financing transactions with an aggregate value of approximately $50 billion. His range of strategic transaction experience includes sell-side and buy-side M&A advisory, hostile take-over, and defense advisory assignments. David Newcomb, Managing Director, Equities : Mr. Newcomb's sales experience will be a key factor in the continued expansion of Oppenheimer's healthcare platform. His expertise and relationships will help expand the reach of the firm's healthcare product with access to an increased number of institutional equity accounts.
These additions will continue the Firm's successful track record in the healthcare sector. Over the last decade, Oppenheimer's healthcare banking professionals have advised on approximately 300 deals including advisory services for transactions totaling approximately $13 billion and financings totaling approximately $30 billion.
"Oppenheimer has a long history of providing healthcare companies with access to capital markets and industry leading advisory services. With these latest additions, we will be better positioned to serve the growing needs of our clients," said Robert Lowenthal, Head of Oppenheimer Investment Banking.
Oppenheimer & Co. Inc.
Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (Oppenheimer), a principal subsidiary of Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY on the New York Stock Exchange), and its affiliates provide a full range of wealth management, securities brokerage and investment banking services to high-net-worth individuals, families, corporate executives, local governments, businesses and institutions.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oppenheimer-reinforces-commitment-to-healthcare-investment-banking-with-new-hires-and-continued-focus-in-2018-300578968.html
SOURCE Oppenheimer & Co. Inc.