TOLEDO, Ohio, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Welltower Inc. (NYSE: HCN) announced today that Joe Weisenburger has been named Senior Vice President, Business Development of Welltower. Mr. Weisenburger has been with the company since 1998 and previously served as Vice President - Business Development.
"Joe's long and successful tenure at Welltower has been defined by his deep industry relationships and specialized knowledge base in seniors housing," said Mercedes Kerr, Executive Vice President - Business and Relationship Management. "Joe will play a critical role going forward as we continue to improve, on what is already the leading industry platform, for a new generation of residents."
As Senior Vice President, Mr. Weisenburger will continue to lead domestic deal origination and relationship management efforts for Welltower's seniors housing portfolio. He will continue to report to Mercedes Kerr.
Mr. Weisenburger has served in various leadership roles throughout his tenure with Welltower, including positions in asset management and investments and leading the underwriting team.
Prior to joining Welltower, Mr. Weisenburger worked for Northwest Ohio Venture Fund where he was responsible for the evaluation of new and add-on investments for a $20 million venture fund. Mr. Weisenburger holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Miami University and an MBA in Finance from The Ohio State University.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE: HCN), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people's wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/welltower-names-joe-weisenburger-senior-vice-president-business-development-300590666.html
SOURCE Welltower Inc.