GOLDEN, Colo., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Medical Affairs Professional Society (MAPS), the premier non-profit global society of Medical Affairs professionals, announces the appointment of Dr. Charlotte Kremer as its next Global President, effective March 1. Kremer will help lead MAPS during a key period of growth and development for the society, ensuring the vision and mission of MAPS are achieved in all its initiatives around the globe.
To learn more about MAPS, visit us at www.medicalaffairs.org and connect with us on LinkedIn for the latest news, resources and updates.
Kremer is currently the executive vice president and head of Medical Affairs for Astellas Pharma Inc. In this role, Kremer provides leadership for the Medical Affairs organization globally. She joined Astellas in 2012 with 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. Prior to Astellas, she held several positions in Pfizer; her last appointment in Pfizer was that of vice president, therapeutic area head for ophthalmology, Pulmonary Vascular Disease, rare diseases and neuroscience in Clinical Development and Medical Affairs. Prior to joining Pfizer, Kremer held Medical Affairs positions of increasing responsibility at Organon Pharmaceuticals, both in the Netherlands and in the United States. She earned her medical degree from Utrecht University, a Diploma Pharmaceutical Medicine from Université Libre de Bruxelles and a Master of Business Administration from Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University.
"I am extremely pleased to pass the baton to Dr. Kremer during this exciting time for MAPS," explains Dr. Kirk Shepard, current Global President for MAPS. "We are looking forward to leveraging her tremendous experience and leadership as a veteran of the industry to help develop and grow our society, and ensure a unified voice for Medical Affairs professionals in all corners of the world."
"Having served on the executive leadership committee for MAPS this past year, I am honored to accept this leadership position and look forward to continuing the society's impressive growth as we expand our efforts to become a truly global hub for the Medical Affairs community," said Kremer. "To that end, the word 'community' will have significant meaning for this society as we aim to continually evolve MAPS into a space where we can all come together and have an open dialogue, sharing in our difficulties and challenges in our organizations and careers. I look forward to working with our regional leadership and partners in developing much needed resources that document standards of practice and provide practical guidance for their implementation."
About MAPS:
MAPS is a non-profit global society of Medical Affairs professionals with members from over 100 life sciences companies, as well as those who provide valuable support to Medical Affairs organizations. Its mission is to advance the Medical Affairs profession and increase its impact across the life sciences industry by:
Promoting excellence across Medical Affairs functions Developing guidelines to support industry standards and best practices Fostering advocacy for the Medical Affairs position Providing education and encouraging professional collaborations that support the practice of Medical Affairs
Media Contact:
Travis Hege
Phone: +1 303.495.2073
Email: thege@medicalaffairs.org
Related links:
MAPS Membership Information: http://www.medicalaffairs.org/membership/
MAPS eCademy: http://www.medicalaffairs.org/ecademy/
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-medical-affairs-professional-society-maps-taps-charlotte-kremer-md-mba-as-its-next-global-president-300580799.html
SOURCE Medical Affairs Professional Society