0 COMMENTS Sign up: With one click, get this newsletter delivered to your inbox .
The business of delivering shipments the fastest is finally delivering significant growth . Air-cargo demand was on pace at the end of 2017 to grow at its fastest rate since the financial crisis , the WSJ’s Doug Cameron and Jennifer Smith report, providing a long-awaited boost in revenues for airlines. That has added new headaches for shippers looking to rush goods to markets in resurgent economies, as many have seen shipping rates soar in a business that has held back capacity growth after years of lackluster demand. Research group World ACD says airfreight rates were up 17% year-over-year in November and that airline cargo revenues that month rose by more than a quarter from a year ago. Experts say the rebound is broad-based, with demand for both big industrial shipments and smaller consumer goods both spiking upward. E-commerce is the big drivers, however, with consumer purchases pushing orders onto aircraft and triggering more production of goods from apparel to electronics.
Groups looking to organize California’s port truckers have a potential powerful new ally. The city of Los Angeles is suing three trucking companies over business models that classify drivers at Southern California’s sprawling ports as independent contractors rather than employees. The suits mark a new battleground in a battle over the treatment of many truck drivers as independent contractors , WSJ Logistics Report’s Erica E. Phillips writes, a contentious question in the fragmented business of moving goods between ports and nearby distribution centers and freight yards. Independent drivers for many of Southern California’s port-trucking companies have been complaining about the practice, filing hundreds of state wage-and-hour complaints, and winning tens of millions in back pay. The suits by L.A. may step up the pressure in the $14 billion port-trucking. Action in the courts also could open the door to organizing efforts by the Teamsters union, a result that would be a big concern for trucking companies and their shipping customers.
The freshness in the meal-kit delivery business may be fading. Investors that once rushed to the boxed-up services are now leaving companies like Blue Apron Holdings Inc. and HelloFresh SE sitting on the porch, and the WSJ’s Heather Haddon reports they’re citing in part the big logistical hurdles the companies face in getting goods delivered reliably to homes . It certainly seems like a shakeout has been inevitable, with roughly 150 startups jumping into the market in the past five years. The sector is growing, with sales projected to grow from $2 billion in 2016 to $6 billion in 2021. But that growth is attracting new, bigger competition that’s in a better position to manage the logistics and marketing costs behind meal kits. Big supermarket chains are getting into the business, and they have the scale in their supply chains to keep costs lower, presenting the biggest logistics challenge of all to the independent startups.
COMMODITIES Hong Kong International Airport, the world’s busiest freight airport. Photo: Bloomberg News The owner of one of the U.S.’s biggest beef suppliers may be pulling out of the market just as the business is rebounding. Leucadia National Corp. is exploding selling all or part of its stake in National Beef Packing Co., the WSJ’s Jacob Bunge and Dana Mattioli report, triggering a shift in the foundation agriculture industry at a critical period of growth . The industry’s rebound highlights how changes in farm commodities are coursed through other agriculture sectors. Demand for beef is climbing as the cost of raising cattle declines, in part because big grain harvests have sharply reduced the cost of feed. The U.S. beef cattle supply has grown by 12% since 2014, and exports last year climbed nearly 13%. National Beef has a big role in the rebound, providing 12.5% of U.S. beef cattle. In looking for a sale, Leucadia is signaling it may not want to cope with more swings in the cyclical business.
QUOTABLE
‘ You’re literally begging and pleading to get on airplanes, leveraging any contact you can. ’
—Neel Jones Shah, global head of airfreight for Flexport Inc.
Number of the Day 7% Increase in 2017 over 2016 in inbound container shipments at major U.S. ports, according to the National Retail Federation’s Global Port Tracker .
IN OTHER NEWS A basket of U.S. employment indicators measured by the Conference Board increased in December. (WSJ)
Seventeen people in the U.S. have been sickened in an E.coli outbreak authorities believe may be tied to cases in Canada. (WSJ)
Renegotiation of Nafta terms is bringing new attention to provisions calling for Mexican trucks to operate in the U.S . (New York Times)
Whole Foods Markets is placing tough new limits on suppliers, including requiring they work with one firm in areas such as inventory management . (Washington Post)
Airbus SE is offering to give China a role in manufacturing the A380 aircraft in exchange for new orders for the superjumbo . (Bloomberg)
General Motors will export some car models from the U.S. to Russia after ceasing assembly for the market in Belarus. (Automotive Logistics)
CSX Corp. Jim Foote told regulators the railroad has seen a “remarkable rate of positive change” in service performance . (Progressive Railroading)
Minnesota Democratic Sen. Tina Smith wants new federal efforts to shore up distressed pension funds such as trucking’s Central States plan. (Duluth News Tribune)
Discount grocer Lidl is opening a 1 million-square-foot distribution center about 30 miles north of London. (Logistics Manager)
FedEx Corp.’s FedEx Express unit opened a regional hub at Shanghai Pudong International Airport . (Forbes)
New tanker shipping capacity is due to be delivered this year at the fastest pace in several years . (Splash 24/7)
German cargo ship owner Schulte Group is buying liquefied natural gas ship manager Pronav. (Lloyd’s List)
Seaport cargo terminal operator DP World expects to spend about $1 billion annually for the next three years on capital investments . (The National)
China Cosco Shipping is launching several upgrades at Greece’s Port of Piraeus . (Seatrade Maritime)
Swiss logistics giant Kuehne + Nagel is considering acquisitions in Asia. (Cash)
Massachusetts-based logistics provider CH Powell Co. acquired New Orleans-based customs broker The Irwin Brown Co. (American Shipper)
ABOUT US Paul Page is deputy editor of WSJ Logistics Report. Follow him at @PaulPage , and follow the entire WSJ Logistics Report team: @brianjbaskin , @jensmithWSJ and @EEPhillips_WSJ . Follow the WSJ Logistics Report on Twitter at @WSJLogistics .
Write to Paul Page at paul.page@wsj.com