NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Landit , a technology platform to increase the success and engagement of women in the workplace, has hired former NBA executive Rachel Jacobson as Chief Business Development Officer.
In this role, Rachel will be leading Landit’s business development efforts. Jacobson spent over twenty years at the NBA, most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Partnerships. She was responsible for leading a sales team and securing prominent partnerships for the league and its properties with Fortune 500 companies. Some of those partnerships included PepsiCo, ExxonMobil, Under Armour, Marriott, Harman and Kaiser Permanente.
“We are thrilled to have Rachel join the Landit team,” said Lisa Skeete Tatum, founder and CEO of Landit. “She is a proven leader with a stellar track record of success and an incredibly strong network.”
During her tenure at the NBA, Jacobson was one of the highest-ranking women in sports. Her achievements are numerous including receiving the Sports Business Journal’s 40 Under 40 Award, co-chair of the NBA’s women’s network, and an honoree of Working Mother Magazine’s “Mother of the Year” award.
“I am excited for the opportunity to partner with Lisa and the team to continue the growth of Landit,” said Jacobson. “Lisa is an incredible visionary leader, and I look forward to scaling our business to help women in the workplace around the world. Advocating for women has always been core to my DNA, and I could not think of a more meaningful mission on which to focus at this stage of my career.”
With a bachelor’s degree from the Cornell School of Hotel & Business Management, Jacobson has also served as a member of the Cornell Hotel School Alumni Council and the President’s Council of Cornell Women.
Landit is an early stage company that is revolutionizing professional development for women with a new approach to career acceleration and management. Their turnkey "one size fits one" solution enables companies to more successfully invest in and create a compelling women's experience to attract, develop, and retain high-potential diverse talent. Landit provides each member with a personalized playbook that empowers them with the tools, resources, know-how, and human connections they need to more successfully navigate their career path.
Landit’s customer and partner list includes leading Fortune 1000 companies. Landit has been featured in Wall Street Journal, Forbes, CNBC, Fortune, Inc., BBC Business, and named one of the Top 10 Innovations That Made Women’s Lives Better by Fast Company.
For more information or to sign up for Landit, visit www.Landit.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005465/en/
Skai Blue Media
Christanna Ciabattoni, 215-625-7988
Christanna@skaibluemedia.com
Source: Landit