WILMINGTON, Del., The Chemours Company (Chemours) (NYSE: CC), a global chemistry company with leading market positions in titanium technologies, fluoroproducts and chemical solutions, announced it will release fourth quarter and full-year financial results after market close on Wednesday, February 14, 2018. The company will conduct its webcast conference call on Thursday, February 15, 2018 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. The call is open to the public and can be accessed via live webcast and teleconference.
Conference Call: Please visit investors.chemours.com for a link to the live webcast and to view the accompanying slides.
Replay: A webcast replay will be available at investors.chemours.com
About The Chemours Company
The Chemours Company (NYSE: CC) helps create a colorful, capable and cleaner world through the power of chemistry. Chemours is a global leader in titanium technologies, fluoroproducts and chemical solutions, providing its customers with solutions in a wide range of industries with market-defining products, application expertise and chemistry-based innovations. Chemours ingredients are found in plastics and coatings, refrigeration and air conditioning, mining and oil refining operations and general industrial manufacturing. Our flagship products include prominent brands such as Teflon™, Ti-Pure™, Krytox™, Viton™, Opteon™, Freon™ and Nafion™. Chemours has approximately 7,000 employees and 26 manufacturing sites serving approximately 4,000 customers in North America, Latin America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Chemours is headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware and is listed on the NYSE under the symbol CC. For more information please visit chemours.com .
CONTACT
MEDIA
Alvenia Scarborough
Director, Brand Marketing and Corporate Communications
+1.302.773.4507
media@chemours.com
INVESTORS
Alisha Bellezza
Treasurer and Director of Investor Relations
+1.302.773.2263
investor@chemours.com
 : releases/chemours-announces-dates-for-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-release-and-webcast-conference-call-300584803.html
SOURCE The Chemours Company