MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Unbxd Inc. ( unbxd.com ), a leading cloud-based product discovery solution for eCommerce, today welcomed Jayanth Vijayaraghavan as Senior Vice President of Engineering and Ravi Maira as Senior Vice President of Product.
Jayanth comes to Unbxd from Instart Logic. As Senior Director of Engineering at Instart Logic, Jayanth built technology to deliver superior customer experiences through machine learning for leading eCommerce and Media businesses. Prior to Instart Logic, Jayanth was a Senior Director of Engineering at Yahoo, working on Cloud Services.
Ravi was previously a Vice President at Akamai Technologies, where he headed product management for a half billion-dollar business unit. In his almost 17-year-long career with Akamai, Ravi's focus was on building and marketing enterprise products for eCommerce, media, and other demanding industries. Ravi led product and marketing teams that helped scale Akamai's revenue from a few million dollars (pre-IPO) to billions of dollars.
"We are excited to have Ravi and Jayanth on board. They bring invaluable experience in building large-scale, sophisticated and high-performance technology for enterprises," says Pavan Sondur, CEO and Co-founder of Unbxd. "The Unbxd solution has a proven product-market fit. Strengthening our team sets the stage for us to scale as we cater to the modern, demanding consumer."
Unbxd also recently brought on board Sanjay Singh , former SVP at Akamai Technologies, as its Chief Operating Officer to lead GTM strategy.
About Unbxd
Unbxd is the smartest Product Discovery Platform that understands shoppers' intent and connects them to products they are most likely to buy — across site search, navigation and recommendation purchase journeys. The platform combines AI-based automation, powerful merchandising controls and extensive user experience capabilities, to enhance on-site shopper experience and increase revenue for online retailers.
Unbxd enables 36 billion annual interactions and $4.5 billion in online GMV, for leading retailers like Express, HSN, and Rue21, across the globe.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/unbxd-strengthens-product--technology-leadership-team-to-drive-next-level-of-growth-at-the-company-300579146.html
SOURCE Unbxd Inc.