NOVI, Mich., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Stoneridge, Inc. (NYSE: SRI) announced that effective January 8, Thomas (Tom) M. Dono, Jr. will be appointed Chief Legal Officer. David Jaffe, Principal of Jaffe Counsel PLC, has led the internal legal function for the company on an interim-basis over the last year and will continue to advise the Company as he transitions these responsibilities to Dono.
Dono has extensive global leadership experience. He was formerly Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary at Metaldyne Performance Group Inc. Previous to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Key Safety Systems, Inc. He has served in legal leadership roles at Delphi Corporation and at Wilson, Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati representing technology, life sciences, and growth companies around the world. He holds a JD from the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law; and a BS, Economics and Business Management from Stony Brook University.
"I want to thank David for his leadership over the past year. I am looking forward to Tom building on David's service as a trusted legal professional and global business partner," said Jon DeGaynor, President and CEO, Stoneridge, Inc. "Throughout his career, Tom has consistently demonstrated an integrated and collaborative approach partnering with global leaders to drive shareholder value. Tom has a keen understanding of the industry, markets, and global trends. With the addition of Tom, we continue to execute on our plan to build a world-class leadership team that positions Stoneridge to execute on our long-term growth strategy."
Dono will be based at the company headquarters in Novi, Mich. and report to DeGaynor.
About Stoneridge, Inc.
Stoneridge, Inc., headquartered in Novi, Michigan, is an independent designer and manufacturer of highly engineered electrical and electronic components, modules and systems principally for the automotive, commercial vehicle, motorcycle, agricultural and off-highway vehicle markets. Additional information about Stoneridge can be found at Stoneridge.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stoneridge-inc-appoints-thomas-m-dono-jr-chief-legal-officer-300579011.html
SOURCE Stoneridge, Inc.