NEW YORK, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WeissLaw LLP is investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law by the Board of Directors of Archrock Partners, L. P. ("APLP" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: APLP) in connection with the proposed acquisition of the Company by Archrock, Inc. ("AROC") (NYSE: AROC). Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive 1.40 shares of AROC for each APLP share they own, representing consideration of $12.81 based on AROC's January 2 trading price of $9.15.
WeissLaw is investigating whether APLP's Board acted to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. Notably, at least one analyst set a target price of $19.00, which is nearly twice the per-share consideration being offered to APLP shareholders by AROC. Additionally, the Company recently announced positive financial results. It reported revenue of $140.2 million in the third quarter of 2017; representing an increase of $1.9 million when compared to the $138.3 million reported in the previous period, and an increase of $4.7 million when compared to the $135.5 million reported in the period of the previous year.
Given these facts, WeissLaw is investigating whether APLP's shareholders will obtain their fair and proportionate share of the Company's continued success and future growth prospects. If you own APLP shares and would like more information about your rights or our investigation, or if you have information to share with us, please contact Joshua Rubin by telephone at (888) 593-4771 or by email at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com .
WeissLaw LLP has litigated hundreds of stockholder class and derivative actions for violations of corporate and fiduciary duties. We have recovered over a billion dollars for defrauded clients and obtained important corporate governance relief in many of these cases. If you have information or would like legal advice concerning possible corporate wrongdoing (including insider trading, waste of corporate assets, accounting fraud, or materially misleading information), consumer fraud (including false advertising, defective products, or other deceptive business practices), or anti-trust violations, please email us at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com or fill out the form on our website, http://www.weisslawllp.com/ archrock-partners-l-p /
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/weisslaw-llp-investigates-archrock-partners-l-p-acquisition-300578347.html
SOURCE WeissLaw LLP