SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Yelp Inc. (NYSE: YELP), the company that connects people with great local businesses, today announced that it will issue its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2017 after the market closes on Wednesday, February 7, 2018. Yelp will host a conference call and webcast to discuss the results at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Time) on the same day. A live webcast of the call can be accessed from Yelp’s Investor Relations website at yelp-ir.com . A at the same website following the call.
About Yelp
Yelp Inc. ( http://www.yelp.com ) connects people with great local businesses. Yelp was founded in San Francisco in July 2004. Since then, Yelp has taken root in major metros in more than 30 countries. Approximately 30 million unique devices 1 accessed Yelp via the Yelp app, approximately 84 million unique visitors visited Yelp via desktop computer 2 and approximately 74 million unique visitors visited Yelp via mobile website 3 on a monthly average basis during the third quarter of 2017. By the end of the same quarter, Yelpers had written approximately 142 million rich, local reviews, making Yelp the leading local guide for real word-of-mouth on everything from boutiques and mechanics to restaurants and dentists.
1 Calculated as the number of unique devices accessing the app on a monthly average basis over a given three-month period, according to internal Yelp logs.
2 Calculated as the number of “users,” as measured by Google Analytics, accessing Yelp via the desktop website on a monthly average basis over a given three-month period. Adjusted to remove certain robot traffic, as described in Yelp’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
3 Calculated as the number of “users,” as measured by Google Analytics, accessing Yelp via mobile website on a monthly average basis over a given three-month period.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006199/en/
Investor Relations Contact Information
Allie Dalglish, 415-635-2412
ir@yelp.com
Source: Yelp Inc.