LYNDHURST, N.J., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Scarinci Hollenbeck is pleased to announce that Paul A. Lieberman, a distinguished Financial Services attorney with over 30 years of legal expertise, has joined the firm as Partner. Mr. Lieberman will be located in Scarinci Hollenbeck's Red Bank, NJ and Manhattan, NY law offices. Mr. Lieberman will apply a client-centric focus to his legal representation involving all aspects of the financial services industry. He will also counsel clients on various issues related to formation and governance, regulation, litigation, compliance and risk management, transactions, supervision, Cybersecurity and privacy. With his decades of experience in multiple practices , the addition of Mr. Lieberman adds significant depth to Scarinci Hollenbeck's Corporate Transactions & Business Law and Litigation groups.
"Given his wide-ranging expertise and decades of legal practice, I'm excited to welcome Paul to Scarinci Hollenbeck. I believe he will be a valuable resource for our clients and that he will establish himself as yet another example of the talented and growing pool of attorneys representing the firm," said Russell Ascher, Executive Director of Scarinci Hollenbeck.
"I am happy to be a part of Scarinci Hollenbeck because I feel the firm offers a significant amount of support and value to both myself and my existing clients. I look forward to being a part of the legal team and continuing to expand the firm's capacity to serve clients in the financial sector and beyond," said Paul Lieberman.
Distinguished Legal Practice
Prior to joining Scarinci Hollenbeck, Mr. Lieberman was Partner at Eaton & Van Winkle, LLP where his practice focused on administrative, regulatory compliance matters, transactional matters, and all aspects of commercial litigation and ADR. He was able to achieve successful defenses of SEC, FINRA and state administrative proceedings against Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser principals/officers and employees as well as investment advisers. His litigation practice involves the prosecution and defense of arbitrations, mediations and civil litigation, and serves as regulatory counsel to clients providing guidance on regulatory, compliance, legal and risk management developments, including improvements in firm policies and procedures across all business lines. He coordinates with what he regards as client "teams" in the review and development of enhancements to policies, procedures, training and implementation of strategic changes to meet the requirements of new legal and regulatory developments.
In addition to his financial and regulatory legal practice, Mr. Lieberman has also focused his practice on Cybersecurity and Privacy matters. Mr. Lieberman has also assisted clients in the selection of "best of breed" expert vendors in E-discovery matters as well as managing the spectrum of Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM). Combining his decades of experience with his proficiency in several practices, Mr. Lieberman provides invaluable advice on legal matters facing clients of varying backgrounds, which makes him a valuable and welcome addition to Scarinci Hollenbeck.
 on Paul A. Lieberman and his practice please see his bio at www.sh-law.com/attorneys/paul-a-lieberman .
About Scarinci Hollenbeck
With a growing practice of more than 65 experienced attorneys, Scarinci Hollenbeck is a regional alternative to a National 250 law firm. Named among NJBiz's 2017 Best Places to Work list, we have offices in New Jersey, New York City, the District of Columbia, and now San Francisco, California. We serve the niche practice areas most often required by institutions, corporations, entities, and the people who own and control them. We offer a full range of services necessary to assist clients in business law. We have developed our corporate transactions & business law practice with the expertise and specialization necessary to serve our clients in a cost-effective and professional manner. We apply this approach in our work on the behalf of the numerous clients we represent. More information on our firm's expertise and range of practice can be found on our website: www.sh-law.com .
Contact: Peter Moeller
Telephone: 732-780-5590
Email: 188849@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/seasoned-financial-services-attorney-joins-growing-law-firm-300583388.html
SOURCE Scarinci Hollenbeck, LLC