ROCHELLE PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- ZRG Partners, recognized as the fastest growing search firm in the Americas, is pleased to announce that Carren Shi has joined ZRG Partners as a Managing Director and Country Head of China to help expand ZRG’s coverage in the region.
Prior to joining ZRG Partners, Carren worked at Korn Ferry in China and also had run her own boutique firm. She brings to the role 20 years of valuable local market business experience, with over 12 years in executive search. Carren has strong experience in the consumer and life sciences sector to ZRG Partners.
Larry Hartmann , CEO of ZRG related, “We felt it was time to add a local leader on the ground every day in China, to help further develop the tremendous opportunities helping our clients find the best talent in the market. Carren brings big company experience and an entrepreneurial history to the role with ZRG, which makes her the perfect choice to help us grow in both China and across Asia Pacific. Bob Chandis has done a great job for ZRG over the past decade supporting our clients work in Asia Pacific and in building our Shanghai office. Bob will continue to split his time between offices, focusing more time in North America working with Chinese companies expanding into the region as Carren takes on the leadership role in the region.”
Carren Shi stated, “I am excited to join ZRG to better support my longtime accounts with a truly global platform. ZRG is bringing innovation to the process of hiring and my clients in Asia Pacific will benefit from the data and analytics tools to drive great hiring decisions. I am also looking forward to supporting the existing ZRG Partners global relationships in the region for important senior hires.”
About ZRG Partners
ZRG Partners is a progressive mid-sized global executive search firm that uses a proven, data-driven approach. For more than 18 years, clients have trusted ZRG Partners to recruit top talent around the world. ZRG Partners is recognized as one of the fastest growing executive search firms in the industry driven by the firm’s client focused, results driven approach grounded in integrity.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006147/en/
ZRG Partners
Carren Shi, 86 21 8036 0418
cshi@zrgpartners.com
or
Larry Hartmann, 201-560-9900
lhartmann@zrgpartners.com
or
Robert Chandis, 201-560-9900
rchandis@zrgpartners.com
www.zrgpartners.com
Source: ZRG Partners