NEW YORK, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Virtu Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ:VIRT) (the “Company”), a leading technology-enabled market maker and liquidity provider to the global financial markets, today announced the closing of the sale of the BondPoint business to Intercontinental Exchange (NYSE:ICE) for a total purchase price of $400 million.
About Virtu
Virtu is a leading financial firm that leverages cutting edge technology to deliver liquidity to the global markets and innovative, transparent trading solutions to our clients. As a market maker, Virtu provides deep liquidity that helps to create more efficient markets around the world. Our market structure expertise, broad diversification, and execution technology enables us to provide competitive bids and offers in over 19,000 securities, at over 235 venues, in 36 countries worldwide.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The foregoing information and certain oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company contain certain that reflect the company's current views with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. These are and will be, as the case may be, subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to the Company's operations and business environment which may cause the company's actual results to be materially different from any future results, expressed or implied, in these . Any in this release are based upon information available to the company on the date of this release. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its even if experience or future changes make it clear that any statements expressed or implied therein will not be realized. Additional information on risk factors that could potentially affect the Company's financial results may be found in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT
Investor Relations
Andrew Smith
Virtu Financial, Inc.
(212) 418-0195
investor_relations@virtu.com
Media Relations
media@virtu.com
Source:Virtu Financial, LLC