SAN DIEGO, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- OncoSec Medical Incorporated ("OncoSec" or the "Company") (NASDAQ:ONCS), a company developing intratumoral cancer immunotherapies, today announced the appointment of Gregory T. Mayes to its board of directors. Mr. Mayes is President, Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Engage Therapeutics, and brings over 20 years of experience as a biopharmaceutical executive with an extensive network in the life sciences field to OncoSec's board of directors. The Company's Board appointed him on Friday, January 12, 2018.
"We are extremely pleased to have Greg join our board of directors at this pivotal time for the Company," said Daniel J. O'Connor, Chief Executive Officer of OncoSec. "With his well-established track record of success, we believe Greg's deep business, legal and board level expertise will provide valuable insight as we continue to advance our lead program."
"The field of intratumoral immunotherapy is at an exciting juncture and I believe OncoSec has established a unique and innovative approach to addressing a significant unmet medical need for patients who do not currently respond to anti-PD-1 treatments with their ImmunoPulse platform," said Mayes. "I look forward to contributing to the advancement of the Company's technology."
Mr. Mayes is the President, Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Engage Therapeutics, a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing Staccato速 alprazolam, a small, easy-to-use hand-held drug-device combination product with the potential to become the first product approved to abort an active epileptic seizure when a predictable seizure pattern emerges.
Prior to Engage Therapeutics, Mr. Mayes served as Chief Operating Officer of Advaxis Immunotherapies, and a member of its board of directors. While at Advaxis, Mr. Mayes was instrumental in establishing major pharma partnerships and developing a Phase 3 registration strategy and clinical development plan for the Company's lead product candidate, which resulted in an FDA Special Protocol Assessment and Fast Track Designation. Prior to Advaxis, Mr. Mayes served as the President and General Counsel and Board member for Unigene Laboratories where he led out-licensing efforts for a novel oral peptide drug delivery platform. Mr. Mayes also served as Vice President, General Counsel, and Chief Compliance Officer at ImClone Systems, an Eli Lilly subsidiary, where his contributions significantly contributed to the clinical development and commercialization of ERBITUX速 (cetuximab), and the $6.5 billion-dollar sale of the Company to Eli Lilly in 2008. Mr. Mayes also served as Senior Counsel at AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, where he provided a wide range of legal services in connection with the development and commercialization of five approved products in the Company's oncology portfolio. Mayes is a cum laude graduate of Syracuse University where he was recognized as a Remembrance Scholar and he earned his J.D. degree magna cum laude from Temple University School of Law, where he was the Articles Editor on the Temple Law Review.
About OncoSec Medical Incorporated
OncoSec is a biotechnology company developing DNA-based intratumoral immunotherapies with an investigational technology, ImmunoPulse 速 , for the treatment of cancer. ImmunoPulse is designed to enhance the local delivery and uptake of DNA-based immune-targeting agents, such as plasmid encoded IL-12 (tavokinogene telseplasmid or "tavo"). In Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, ImmunoPulse 速 IL-12 has demonstrated a favorable safety profile, evidence of anti-tumor activity in the treatment of various solid tumors, and the potential to reach beyond the site of local treatment to initiate a systemic immune response. OncoSec's lead program, ImmunoPulse IL-12, is currently in clinical development for metastatic melanoma and triple-negative breast cancer. The program's current focus is on the significant unmet medical need in patients with melanoma who are refractory or have relapsed on anti-PD-1 therapies. In addition to tavo, the Company is also identifying and developing new immune-targeting agents for use with the ImmunoPulse platform. For more information, please visit www.oncosec.com .
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "can," "may," "will," "suggest," "look forward to," "potential," "understand," and similar references to future periods.
Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based on management's current preliminary expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause our results to differ materially and adversely from the statements contained herein. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those predicted include, among others, the following: uncertainties inherent in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, such as the ability to enroll patients in clinical trials and the risk of adverse events; unexpected new data, safety and technical issues; our ability to raise additional funding necessary to fund continued operations; and the other factors discussed in OncoSec's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. OncoSec disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date they are made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
CONTACT:
Investor Relations:
Stern Investor Relations
Will O'Connor
Phone: (212) 362-1200
will@sternir.com
Media Relations:
Stern Strategy Group
Brian Hyland or Ashley Duvall
Phone: (908) 276-4344
OncoSecPR@sternstrategy.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oncosec-appoints-veteran-biopharma-executive-gregory-t-mayes-to-board-of-directors-300582986.html
SOURCE OncoSec Medical Incorporated