Top News 
When it comes to regulation, no news is good news. 
At least for U.S. business leaders, who are growing confident in a Trump administration that has pulled back on regulation. Though the link between regulation and positive economic effects is murky at best, a stable business environment is beginning to translate into corporate spending. The New York Times 
Caterpillar is in a $2 billion tax fight with the U.S. 
The iconic manufacturing company—it had roles in the building of the Hoover Dam and Golden Gate Bridge, among others—ships parts from the American Midwest but lets sales flow through a subsidiary in Geneva, an arrangement in place since 1999. The IRS is investigating and its findings could influence how U.S. companies structure their businesses to lower tax bills. The Wall Street Journal 
Oil prices are up, but unrest in Iran grows. 
Oil prices posted their strongest opening to a year since 2014. The price of crude rose to mid-2015 highs (above $60 per barrel), driven by anti-government rallies in Iran and supply cuts led by OPEC and Russia. Strong economic growth and falling inventories are expected to support continued strength in the market. Reuters 
North Korean hackers are hijacking computers to mine cryptocurrency. 
How do you find money when the international community won’t let you have it? Take matters into your own hands. A hacking group called Andariel, reportedly acting on behalf of the North Korean government, is believed to have seized a South Korean server to mine Monero, a kind of digital currency. Bloomberg Around the Water Cooler 
Game over in China? 
The fast-growing mobile games industry has created a lot of wealth—$18 billion in 2017 alone—in a very short time, benefiting major players like Tencent. But industry observers are concerned that this virtual ship is running out of steam after years of extraordinary expansion. The Wall Street Journal 
Bitcoin: A bust in its first hours of 2018. 
For the first time since 2015, the cryptocurrency began a new year sliding rather than soaring—a continuation, to be fair, of a pattern seen since hitting a $19,511 peak on Dec. 18. It’s now trading around $13,624—a sign of, well, who knows for this highly volatile phenomenon. Bloomberg 
Technology makes it easier for employees to sexually harass each other. 
In the modern workplace you have access to more details, in real time, about your colleagues’ lives than ever before. That transparency and immediacy is helping companies operate better and faster. It’s also creating new, often mandatory avenues for would-be harassers to work their toxic magic. Financial Times 
Amazon: Everything store, or everything company? 
Are there limits to the number and kind of businesses that Amazon could enter? At its heart the company is a marketplace—a platform for commerce—with a “one size fits all” approach that serves most people. It won’t specialize in a given market, and that’s a hint as to where Amazon might go next. The Wall Street Journal 
This edition of CEO Daily was edited by Andrew Nusca . Find previous editions here , and sign up for other Fortune newsletters here . SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 