SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global Access ® , a leading provider of international commerce technologies and shipping solutions, has named Janet Mitchell as General Manager for Sales and Marketing.
Mitchell has a proven track record successfully leading sales and marketing teams at high-growth companies. She has launched three venture capital backed start-ups in Austin, Texas with one breakout success, Newgistics, that grew from $300,000 to over $90 million in revenue over a four-year period to be recognized as #6 in the Top 50 Fastest Growing Companies by PriceWaterhouseCoopers. At Newgistics, Mitchell served as Senior Vice President of Solution Design where she led business planning, product management, strategic alliances and marketing. She also previously served as Chief Marketing Officer at start-ups living.com and SmartPrice.com .
Prior to startups, Mitchell served in executive capacities at four Fortune 500 companies, CBS Inc., Playtex International, Dannon and Duracell.
Most recently she served as the founding principal of M Group Agency, an Austin-based strategic marketing agency that helps build the businesses and brands of organizations in need of an agency partner that can guide them to success.
"I am thrilled to join Global Access and return to the fast-growing world of technology and logistics with the aim of building our clients' brand value by significantly improving the customer experience," Mitchell said. "Cross-border commerce will soon cross the $1 trillion mark in value, and there is a growing demand among retailers and direct sellers for international logistics and customer service solutions. Global Access' deep expertise in international commerce combined with its innovative technology platform, global logistics network and focus on delivering a superior customer experience sets it apart from its competition."
"Janet's level of experience in consumer marketing, e-commerce, technology and logistics adds enormous value to our team as we prepare for rapid expansion in 2018," said Global Access CEO David Nielsen. "Her experience and guidance will also be valuable to our clients as they further build their global businesses and brands."
Global Access is a leading expert in international growth logistics for retailers, providing clients with:
Cross-border expertise to help navigate the regulatory requirements of each country A technology platform that maintains transparency and control throughout the process An international logistics network scaled to their business
Founded in 2002, Global Access has shipped more than $1 billion in gross merchandise value to more than 184 countries.
About Global Access
Global Access is a leading provider of international technology and logistics solutions that allow direct sellers and retailers to tap into the fastest growing markets and build global brands. The Company's decades of cross-border expertise protects clients and their brands by successfully navigating the regulatory requirements of each country and by providing their international customers with the same seamless, branded experience enjoyed by domestic customers. The Global Access technology platform ensures accuracy in duty and tax assessment and speedy customs clearance and maintains transparency and control throughout the order process with real-time data access delivering a superior customer experience that builds loyalty to our clients' brands.
Contact: Kate Morton
512-291-6491
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-access-names-janet-mitchell-general-manager-of-sales-and-marketing-300590245.html
SOURCE Global Access