PLANO, Texas, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Protein snacks start-up, Stryve Foods announced today that it acquired the assets of Biltong USA , one of the first USDA approved biltong manufacturers in the country.
Biltong USA, produces high quality sliced beef biltong, droëwors, and other related products for enthusiasts nationwide. Their secret family recipe and method of curing beef was passed down for future generations to enjoy.
Stryve Foods Chairman, Ted Casey, states "bringing our manufacturing resources to Biltong USA will greatly increase scale, allowing us to get biltong into more people's hands." Stryve Foods has already shown tremendous growth since its inception in the summer of 2017, including partnerships with several leading retailers in the FDM and specialty markets.
This acquisition brings together the knowledge base of Biltong USA and Stryve Foods respective teams of experts in the protein snack industry to provide the highest quality, best-tasting biltong product on the market. Biltong USA will continue to offer its products under its current brand while also producing for Stryve Foods. This acquisition is a significant move for Stryve Foods to become the number one name in Biltong.
Gabe Carimi, CEO of Stryve Foods stated, "this is a major accomplishment for our young brand and a huge step towards bringing awareness about this amazing product to the U.S. We're ready to make huge strides in the meat snack industry."
About Stryve Foods
Stryve Foods is a protein snack company based in Dallas, Texas (turkey and chicken bites baked with real fruit pieces, beef, turkey and pork sticks and gourmet beef biltong). Stryve was founded by titans of the sports nutrition industry, Ted Casey, founder of Dymatize, Joe Oblas and TJ Humphreys, founders of Prosupps, and Gabe Carimi former NFL first-round draft pick. They banded together to create a convenient, protein-packed snack that would leave people drooling. Stryve Foods products are all natural, with clean ingredients, no additives, low in sugar and high in protein. Learn more by visiting https://stryvefoods.com/
About Biltong USA
In the late 1600's the Joubert Family, who were French Huguenots, settled in the fertile valleys of the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. For generations, their secret family recipe and method of curing beef was passed down for future generations to enjoy. This product is now available in the US for the first time ever. The Biltong USA facility is located in Stallings, NC where biltong and droëwors are manufactured to the stringent standards imposed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). In addition, the plant has also acquired the internationally recognized Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) approval as well as the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS). Biltong USA, incorporated in 1995.
Media Contact:
Paige Brown
Phone: 469-712-6043
Email: paige@stryvefoods.com
Related Images
image1.jpg
Stryve Original Biltong
image2.jpg
Stryve Protein Snacks
image3.png
Biltong USA
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stryve-foods-llc-becomes-major-player-in-the-protein-snack-industry-with-acquisition-of-biltong-usa-300590518.html
SOURCE Stryve Foods