SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Dorene C. Dominguez, Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer of The Vanir Group of Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries Vanir Construction Management, Inc. and Vanir Development Company, Inc., has announced the appointment of Valerie Reynoso Piotrowski as Executive Director of The Dominguez Dream.
Headshot of Valerie Reynoso Piotrowski
The Dominguez Dream is a public nonprofit dedicated to empowering children in underserved communities to achieve their full potential through Literacy and STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math). Through partnerships with school administrators, teachers and staff, areas of greatest need are identified and funded, such as sciences labs, computer classrooms, musical instruments and exposure to the performing arts. Dominguez started the 501(c)(3) organization in 2004 following the death of her father Frank Dominguez, founder of The Vanir Companies and a passionate advocate of educational opportunities for underserved children.
Piotrowski is an award-winning senior nonprofit executive with more than 25 years of expertise in the industry. Her career history includes serving as Director of Foundations and Corporate Relations for the Salvation Army, chair of the Sacramento Chapter of the National Latina Business Women Association, Advertising Manager and Social Editor of Comstock’s Magazine and serving as a senior executive in the administrations of two California governors. She has held many board positions, including chair of the Sacramento SPCA board of directors, member of the Mercy Foundation Community Council, Salvation Army Advisory Board and Catholic Social Service.
“We are delighted to have an executive with Valerie’s successful career track, expertise and solid relationships with the business sector, CEOs, elected officials, foundations and community leaders,” said Dominguez. “Our plans include expansion of the Dominguez Dream to other states across the western part of the country, including Arizona and Texas, and Valerie’s leadership will facilitate our success in reaching more and more children in those areas that are underserved and impoverished.”
About Vanir Mr. H. Frank Dominguez founded the Vanir Group of Companies, Inc. over 50 years ago in San Bernardino, California. Vanir Group’s subsidiary companies specialize in all aspects of commercial and institutional real estate development and participate in project delivery throughout California and the nation. The combined staff of the Vanir Group of Companies total over 360 professionals including architects, engineers, construction managers, contractors and developers. Visit www.vanir.com for more information.
Media Contact:
Jennifer Azevedo, Vanir (916) 575-8888
jennifer.azevedo@vanir.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c6979fc3-94c4-4f14-98b8-b493d01b70ff
Source:Vanir Construction Management, Inc.