MEMPHIS, Tenn., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Seam, a leading provider of agribusiness software and trading solutions, today announced that it has recently added five new board members, who will continue to help guide and position the company as a leader in agritech. Joining The Seam's Board of Directors are Kevin Brinkley, Jay Hardwick, Tommy Hayden, Hank Reichle and Krista Rickman.
"We are fortunate to have global-leading agribusinesses and industry thought leaders serving on our board," said Mark Pryor, Chairman and CEO at The Seam. "True innovation requires the right combination of technology and business know-how. The accumulative industry knowledge and experience of our board and leadership team provide a globally-reputable foundation for developing agriculture technology solutions of the future."
Brinkley joins the board representing Plains Cotton Cooperative Association (PCCA), where he serves as the President and CEO. PCCA is one of the largest originators of U.S. cotton to textile mills worldwide.
Hardwick represents EWR Inc., a company that provides electronic warehouse receipt solutions for a variety of industries like cotton and peanuts. Hardwick is the past Chairman of Cotton Incorporated, National Cotton Council and American Cotton Producers.
Hayden was selected to the board as a representative of Louis Dreyfus Company, where he serves as the Chief Operating Officer – Cotton Platform.
Reichle serves as the Executive Vice President of Staple Cotton Cooperative Association (Staplcotn), one of the largest cotton marketing cooperatives in the United States.
Rickman represents Cargill Cotton, where she is the Global Operations Manager. Cargill Cotton serves growers, buyers, ginners and textile mills through their buying and selling networks, along with warehouses and cotton gins.
Other board members include Joe Nicosia of Louis Dreyfus Company, William Barksdale of Cargill Cotton, Lonnie Winters of PCCA, and Phil Burnett.
About The Seam
The Seam was founded by leading global agribusiness companies and specializes in commodity trading and management systems. In December 2000, it began operating the world's first completely online, anonymous exchange for cotton trading. Since that time, the company has leveraged its software and application development expertise in agriculture to expand into other commodity segments, including peanuts, grains and dairy. The Seam is a proven leader in the agritech space, having cleared or processed more than $8 billion through its platforms, and recently launched an innovative BI tool for peanut producers and handlers.
Contact: Beth Wilson
beth@creativeinferno.com
901.278.3773
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-seam-adds-five-agribusiness-leaders-to-board-of-directors-300579512.html
SOURCE The Seam