NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Schulte Roth & Zabel (SRZ) is pleased to announce the election of Stephen M. Schauder and Elie Zolty as partners. The firm also announces the promotion of Ariel Aranda , Donna Lazarus and Clara Zylberg to special counsel. The promoted lawyers are all resident in the firm’s New York office. The promotions were effective Jan. 1, 2018.
“These leading lawyers have made great contributions to the firm and the industry,” said Alan S. Waldenberg , chair of the firm’s Executive Committee. “We are proud to recognize their achievements.”
Partners
Stephen M. Schauder , a partner in the Structured Finance & Derivatives Group, focuses his practice on asset-backed securitizations and warehouse credit facilities. He has represented underwriters, issuers, lenders and borrowers across a variety of asset classes, including structured settlements, litigation advances, lottery receivables, personal annuities, timeshare loans, equipment leases and life settlements, among others. He also represents investors, lenders, hedge funds, private equity funds and finance companies in purchases and dispositions of portfolios of assets and financings secured by those portfolios. Mr. Schauder has been recognized by IFLR1000 as a “Rising Star” in the capital markets category, as well as by Legal Media Group’s Expert Guide to Rising Stars. He earned his J.D. from Boston University School of Law and his B.B.A., cum laude, from The George Washington University.
Elie Zolty , a partner in the Tax Group, focuses his practice on the tax aspects of onshore and offshore investment funds, private equity partnerships, real estate investment trusts (REITs) and real estate joint ventures. He represents investment managers in connection with the formation of funds and their ongoing operations, as well as sales of their investment management businesses. He also represents real estate sponsors in connection with operations, restructurings and workouts. A published author, Mr. Zolty recently contributed to “United States Fundraising” in The Private Equity Review, published by Law Business Research, and he co-authored “PATH Act: Recently Enacted Legislation Modifies the FIRPTA and REIT Rules,” an SRZ Client Alert. Mr. Zolty earned his LL.M. in taxation from New York University School of Law, his J.D. from Osgoode Hall Law School and his B.A., with distinction, from York University.
Special Counsel
Ariel Aranda , a special counsel in the Real Estate Group, focuses his practice on a variety of real estate transactions. He represents lenders and borrowers in connection with commercial mortgage and mezzanine financings, acquisitions and dispositions of commercial properties, negotiation of joint venture agreements, and workouts and restructurings. Mr. Aranda earned his J.D., magna cum laude, from Brooklyn Law School and his B.A., cum laude, from Binghamton University.
Donna Lazarus , a special counsel in the Employment & Employee Benefits Group, practices in the areas of employment law and education law. She handles employment discrimination and labor relations matters and advises clients on hiring, managing and terminating employees in compliance with federal, state and local laws. Ms. Lazarus advises clients on harassment and discrimination matters and assists with drafting employment-related policies. She also works with a broad range of educational institutions, including independent schools, colleges, universities, professional training programs and education-related associations, advising them on a variety of legal matters, including board liability, student discipline, learning and other disabilities, employment matters, harassment and bullying, admissions, contracts and litigation issues. Ms. Lazarus was named a New York “Rising Star” by Super Lawyers magazine in 2016 and 2017. She earned her J.D. from New York University School of Law and her B.A., summa cum laude, from Binghamton University.
Clara Zylberg , a special counsel in the M&A and Securities Group, practices in the securities law and regulatory and compliance areas. She focuses her practice on alternative investment structures and related products, including private investments in public equity (PIPE) transactions, registered direct offerings, venture capital financings, exchange offers and special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs), representing some of the largest private investment groups and investment banks in the United States and abroad. Ms. Zylberg also counsels clients in the regulatory areas of Sections 13 and 16, Rules 144 and 144A, Regulation S, insider trading, short selling and Regulation M/Rule 105. Ms. Zylberg earned her LL.M. from New York University School of Law and her LL.B. from Bar Ilan University.
About Schulte Roth & Zabel
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP ( www.srz.com ) is a full-service law firm with offices in New York, Washington, D.C. and London. As one of the leading law firms serving the financial services industry, the firm regularly advises clients on corporate and transactional matters and provides counsel on regulatory, compliance, enforcement and investigative issues. The firm’s practices include: bank regulatory; bankruptcy & creditors’ rights litigation; broker-dealer regulatory & enforcement; business reorganization; complex commercial litigation; cybersecurity; distressed debt & claims trading; distressed investing; education law; employment & employee benefits; energy; environmental; finance; financial institutions; hedge funds; individual client services; insurance; intellectual property, sourcing & technology; investment management; litigation; mergers & acquisitions; PIPEs; private equity; real estate; real estate capital markets & REITs; real estate litigation; regulated funds; regulatory & compliance; securities & capital markets; securities enforcement; securities litigation; securitization; shareholder activism; structured finance & derivatives; tax; and white collar defense & government investigations.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005866/en/
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP
Sun Min, +1 212-610-7539
sun.min@srz.com
or
Group Gordon, Inc.
Lana Gersten, +1 312-846-1655
lgersten@groupgordon.com
Source: Schulte Roth & Zabel