HAILEY, Idaho, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Marketron, the leading provider of revenue management and audience engagement software for media companies, announces that Diversis Capital has completed an acquisition of the company. With this new investment, Marketron will build on its history of leadership as a solutions provider for media companies with an expanded focus on its digital offerings as well as advanced advertising technologies including programmatic. Previous owner, BlackRock Capital, will remain involved with Marketron as an investor.
Diversis has named marketing technology leader Michael Collins as the company's new CEO, replacing Jeff Haley. Haley has led Marketron since 2012 and will remain on the Board. Collins, formerly CEO of Adelphic, a DSP acquired by Time Inc. last year, brings years of relevant experience to the role. Prior to Adelphic, Collins founded and led Joule, WPP's global mobile advertising agency network.
"Marketron has been the undisputed leader in our space, delivering the software and services that enable our media clients to grow their businesses," says Collins. "The new investment from Diversis will allow us to rapidly evolve our product offerings and extend our leadership position."
Diversis' acquisition of Marketron comes as media companies face a crossroads and must transform to accommodate the new omni-channel environment. To help its clients meet this challenge, Marketron will further develop its digital and programmatic capabilities to increase revenue opportunities and expand the areas addressed by its existing revenue management products.
Marketron is an indispensable platform for its 7,000 radio and television partners, with a range of products to improve their bottom line in every realm from operations and finance to ad traffic and sales on-air and online.
"As a long-time partner, we are excited to see Marketron's commitment to growing new technologies as well as developing unique opportunities that are important for our company and the industry at large," said Beasley Media Group Chief Executive Officer Caroline Beasley.
About Marketron
Marketron is the media industry's leading provider of business software solutions and services specializing in revenue management and audience engagement solutions -- the most widely used in the world. With more than 7,000 media organizations served, Marketron manages an estimated $15 billion in annual advertising revenue in the United States alone. The Marketron Mediascape platform is an open architecture solution for the media industry, which effectively streamlines operational efficiencies through a web-based platform that is open for partner integrations. For more information please visit www.marketron.com
About Diversis Capital Group
Founded in 2013, Diversis Capital LLC is a North American private equity firm with a focus on carve-outs and standalone deals within the lower and middle markets that require both sharp financial acumen and operational expertise to obtain success. The team of investment professionals has experience working on complex transactions and leveraging deep hands-on operational expertise to help companies and their management teams achieve their full potential. Diversis, which was founded by Managing Directors Ron Nayot and Kevin Ma, is currently in full acquisition mode with a goal of executing several strategic transactions annually to add to their diversified portfolio. More information is available at www.diversiscapital.com
Contact:
Ruth Sarfaty
188795@email4pr.com
201-960-4664
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/marketron-changes-hands-private-equity-firm-diversis-capital-acquires-company-300583105.html
SOURCE Marketron