NEWTON, Mass., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- BRIDGE Energy Group (BRIDGE) today announced that Dr. Ray Gogel has accepted the company’s offer to join its board of directors. As a member of the board, Dr. Gogel will lend his broad industry insights and experience leading utility industry teams and related companies, to accelerate BRIDGE’s growth.
Dr. Ray Gogel will lend his broad utility industry insights and experience as the newest member of BRIDGE Energy Group board of directors.
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/3505aed4-c28c-4b7e-a3fb-7e2fe8b70fce
“BRIDGE continues to be on the forefront of grid operations, modernization, analytics, and security, leveraging deep industry knowledge and innovative solutions to help their clients transform their business,” said Dr. Gogel. “I am eager to leverage my industry insights and begin contributing to their notable work improving and protecting the nation’s grid.”
Dr. Gogel is currently president of Avanti Enterprises LLC, provider of strategic advisory services to companies serving the power sector. Past experience includes President and COO of US Grid Company, president of the Current Group, an innovative company specializing in cutting-edge smart grid operations, Vice President of Client Services at IBM, responsible for IBM’s largest utility customer and Managing Director in Accenture’s Utility practice.
Dr. Gogel also served as CIO/CAO of Customer & Enterprise Solutions with Xcel Energy. His contributions at Xcel Energy helped the company achieve the prestigious Edison Award for its “Utility of the Future” IT initiative, as well as Utility of the Year from EnergyBiz for the company’s pioneering SmartGridCity™ efforts.
“Dr. Gogel’s experience and thought-leadership in the development of policies and practices to improve the reliability and resiliency of the distributed power system make him an excellent addition to the BRIDGE leadership team,” said Hugo van Nispen, CEO, BRIDGE Energy Group. “We are pleased he has accepted BRIDGE’s invitation to join our board of directors and we look forward to leveraging his industry achievements and insights to expand, improve and deliver solutions that provide faster insights and yield faster results for our utility clients.”
Follow/Engage/Share
Twitter
LinkedIn
Resources
https://www.bridgeenergygroup.com/challenges-we-solve/industry-insights/
https://www.bridgeenergygroup.com/who-we-serve/
https://www.bridgeenergygroup.com/challenges-we-solve/
https://www.bridgeenergygroup.com/services-we-provide/
About BRIDGE Energy Group
BRIDGE Energy Group is a consulting and systems integration firm transforming Transmission & Distribution operations through advisory, delivery and support services. We leverage operations, technology, analytics, visualization and real-time systems expertise to improve grid security and reliability while increasing profitability and efficiency. Founded in 2004, BRIDGE is headquartered near Boston, MA. For more information on BRIDGE, please contact 888-351-8999 or visit www.BridgeEnergyGroup.com
For more information, contact:
Jackie Abramian
BridgeView Marketing (for BRIDGE Energy Group)
603-570-7533
Jackie@bridgeviewmarketing.com
https://twitter.com/BridgeEnergyGrp
Source:BRIDGE Energy Group