CINCINNATI, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Vantiv, Inc. (NYSE: VNTV) announced today that Vantiv's stockholders at its special meeting have voted to approve all stockholder proposals necessary for Vantiv to acquire Worldpay Group plc (LSE: WPG) to create Worldpay, Inc.
"We are pleased that Vantiv stockholders have approved this transaction," said Charles Drucker, president and CEO of Vantiv and incoming executive chairman and co-CEO of Worldpay, Inc. "The strong support of our stockholders demonstrates their confidence in the compelling strategic and operational fit of Vantiv and Worldpay and our vision for the future. Together, Vantiv and Worldpay are creating a global payments company, uniquely equipped to compete across geographies and verticals."
Approximately 99.9 percent of votes cast at Vantiv's Special Meeting were in favor of the transaction. Vantiv will file the final results of the votes later today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K.
As previously disclosed, Vantiv expects the transaction to close on January 16, 2018 following U.K. court approval.
Upon closing, the company's class A common stock will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WP" and on the London Stock Exchange via a standard listing under the symbol "WPY".
About Vantiv
Vantiv (NYSE: VNTV) is the largest merchant and PIN debit acquirer in the US, based on number of transactions, processing 25 billion transactions and nearly $1 trillion in sales volume annually. A leading integrated payment processor, Vantiv offers a comprehensive suite of traditional and innovative payment processing and technology solutions to merchants and financial institutions of all sizes, enabling them to address their payment processing needs through a single provider.
Founded in 1971, Vantiv is using its scale, range of products and services, and technology to expand further into high-growth channels and verticals, including integrated payments, eCommerce, B2B payments, and merchant banking.
Contacts
Andrew Ciafardini
Corporate Communications
513.900.5308
Andrew.Ciafardini@vantiv.com
Nathan Rozof
Investor Relations
866.254.4811 or 513.900.4811
IR@vantiv.com
Important notices relating to financial advisers
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, acting through its affiliate, Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc ("Morgan Stanley") which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK is acting as financial adviser exclusively for Vantiv and no one else in connection with the matters set out in this announcement. In connection with such matters, Morgan Stanley, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents will not regard any other person as their client, nor will they be responsible to any other person for providing the protections afforded to their clients or for providing advice in connection with the contents of this announcement or any other matter referred to herein.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, acting through its affiliate, Credit Suisse International ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA in the United Kingdom, is acting as financial adviser exclusively for Vantiv and Bidco and no one else in connection with the Transaction and/or other matters set out in this announcement and will not be responsible to any person other than Vantiv and Bidco for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the content of this announcement, the Transaction or any matter referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with the Transaction, this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Notice to U.S. investors
The Transaction relates to the shares of an English company and is being made by means of a scheme of arrangement provided for under Part 26 of the Companies Act. The Transaction, implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement is not subject to the tender offer rules or the proxy solicitation rules under the U.S. Exchange Act, as amended. Accordingly, the Transaction is subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable to a scheme of arrangement involving a target company in England listed on the London Stock Exchange, which differ from the disclosure requirements of U.S. tender offer and proxy solicitation rules. If, in the future, Vantiv exercises its right to implement the Transaction by way of a Takeover Offer and determines to extend the Takeover Offer into the U.S., the Transaction will be made in compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations.
The New Vantiv Shares to be issued pursuant to the Transaction have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold in the U.S. absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. The New Vantiv Shares to be issued pursuant to the Transaction will be issued pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(a)(10) under the U.S. Securities Act. If, in the future, Vantiv exercises its right to implement the Transaction by way of a Takeover Offer or otherwise in a manner that is not exempt from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act, it will file a registration statement with the SEC that will contain a prospectus with respect to the issuance of New Vantiv Shares. In this event, Worldpay Shareholders are urged to read these documents and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC, as well as any amendments or supplements to those documents, because they will contain important information, and such documents will be available free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or by directing a request to Vantiv's contact for enquiries identified above.
Neither the SEC nor any U.S. state securities commission has approved or disapproved of the New Vantiv Shares to be issued in connection with the Transaction, or determined if this announcement is accurate or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offence in the U.S.
Worldpay is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. In addition, some of its officers and directors reside outside the U.S., and some or all of its assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Therefore, investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the U.S. upon those persons or recovering against Worldpay or its officers or directors on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may not be possible to sue Worldpay or its officers or directors in a non-US court for violations of the U.S. securities laws.
Forward Looking Statements
This announcement contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to Vantiv, Bidco and Worldpay. These for