Seasoned veteran with decades of strategic, scientific, clinical and leadership experience
NEW YORK, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AIT Therapeutics Inc. (OTC:AITB), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing inhaled Nitric Oxide (NO) for the treatment of patients with serious lung infections and pulmonary hypertension, today announced the appointment of Ms. Yoori Lee to its Board of Directors. Ms. Lee will replace Professor Yossef Av-Gay, who is stepping down.
“We thank Dr. Av-Gay, one of our Founders, for his vision and guidance in getting AIT to this critical juncture, and we are pleased that he will remain with us as a member of our Scientific Advisory Board,” said Steve Lisi, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AIT Therapeutics. “Yoori will be a tremendous asset to our Board as she brings to AIT a truly unique perspective on the Life Science industry. She has earned tremendous respect in the investment, strategic and research and development areas. Additionally, she has demonstrated exceptional leadership qualities in her most recent endeavor of building Trio Health from scratch into an industry leading technology company targeting quality of patient care. Her experience and insight will prove invaluable as AIT progresses to the next stage in its evolution.”
Ms. Yoori Lee, Co-Founder and President of Trio Health Advisory Group noted, “After reviewing AIT’s accomplishments and the opportunities that lie ahead, I am pleased to join this dynamic company’s Board of Directors. Given the very high probability of near-term success for the company’s nitric oxide generator system to treat pulmonary hypertension in the hospital setting, I believe that AIT will succeed in making nitric oxide therapy available to patients suffering from severe lung diseases.”
About Yoori Lee
Ms. Yoori Lee currently serves as Co-founder and President of Trio Health Advisory Group, Inc. Trio Health’s mission is to improve the quality of care in patient outcomes through coordinating the efforts of all patient care stakeholders. Its first-of-its-kind technology platform tracks patients throughout their journey giving pharmaceutical/biotechnology companies, specialty pharmacies and physicians real-time access to information that simply does not exist anywhere else. Trio Health focuses on specialty disease states, such as hepatitis c, HIV, oncology and cystic fibrosis, among others, and examines how each stakeholder impacts the performance of the patient. Trio Health has published extensively on real-world patients; publication topics have included: access to care, comparative effectiveness, physician & pharmacy performance, safety & tolerability, affordability between treatment regimens and various other cohort analyses.
Prior to Trio Health, Ms. Lee spent over 15 years at Leerink Partners LLC, a leading healthcare investment bank, where she was Managing Director, and Director of MEDACorp Services. Additionally, she helped found the MEDACorp network, a cadre of experts including more than 35,000 healthcare professionals in diverse areas of practice such as clinical medicine, biomedical research, regulatory affairs, public policy, healthcare administration and healthcare information technology.
Ms. Lee has delivered value-driving business and decision support strategies to companies ranging from emerging growth to the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies. With over twenty years of consulting experience, she has unique experience in developing scientific, clinical, regulatory and commercial solutions for clients by bringing together a best-in-class network of “in-the-trenches” consultants. Through these close relationships and collaborations, she has been instrumental in developing intricate consulting strategies, amassing numerous advisory boards, and aligning strategic objectives predicated on thorough assessments of competitive landscapes, as well as developing and managing pre and post marketing programs.
About AIT Therapeutics Inc.
AIT Therapeutics Inc. is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company using nitric oxide (NO) to treat serious lung infections and pulmonary hypertension. The Company is currently applying its therapeutic expertise to treat lower respiratory tract infections that are not effectively addressed with current standards of care. AIT Therapeutics is advancing its revolutionary NO respiratory targeted system in clinical trials for the treatment of bronchiolitis and for nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). For more information, visit www.AIT-Pharm.com .
Forward-Looking Statement
This press release contains “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations, beliefs, or intentions regarding our product offerings, business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies or prospects. You can identify such forward-looking statements by the words “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “likely,” “goal,” “assumes,” “targets,” “potential,” and similar expressions and/or the use of future tense or conditional constructions (such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “should” and the like) and by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends or results as of the date they are made. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and reflect our views as of the date they are made with respect to future events and financial performance. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements, including risks related to: our approach to discover and develop novel drugs, which is unproven and may never lead to marketable products; our ability to fund and the results of further pre-clinical and clinical trials; obtaining, maintaining and protecting intellectual property utilized by our products; our ability to enforce our patents against infringers and to defend our patent portfolio against challenges from third parties; our ability to obtain additional funding to support our business activities; our dependence on third parties for development, manufacture, marketing, sales, and distribution of products; the successful development of our product candidates, all of which are in early stages of development; obtaining regulatory approval for products; competition from others using technology similar to ours and others developing products for similar uses; our dependence on collaborators; and our short operating history. We undertake no obligation to update, and we do not have a policy of updating or revising, these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law.
CONTACT
Steven Lisi, Chief Executive Officer
AIT Therapeutics, Inc.
Steve@AIT-Pharm.com
Bob Yedid
LifeSci Advisors, LLC
Bob@LifeSciAdvisors.com
(646) 597 6989
Source:AIT Therapeutics, Inc.