Industry veteran tapped to guide and expand robotics and intelligent systems initiatives
CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- WTWH Media, LLC, a business-to-business publishing and event company, today announced Dan Kara, technology business analyst and integrated media veteran, has joined WTWH as Vice President, Robotics and Intelligent Systems. Kara will guide and expand the company’s robotics and intelligent systems business lines including The Robot Report technology, business and investment portal, the Robotics Summit & Showcase , and other initiatives.
“Dan is an experienced executive with a substantial background in integrated media, business consulting and technology research, who also has a deep understanding of the robotics and intelligent systems sectors, and personal relationships with robotics companies and industry leaders throughout the world,” said Scott McCafferty, Co-Founder and Managing Partner of WTWH Media. “We are pleased to add Dan to the WTWH team, and look forward to working with him to build WTWH Media’s brand and accelerate growth.”
Previously, Kara was Research Director, Robotics at ABI Research and Chief Research Officer for Myria RAS, both research and advisory services firms focused on automation, robotics and intelligent systems. He also served as President of Robotics Trends, the robotics division EH Media. At Robotics Trends, Kara was the developer and past chairman of the RoboBusiness, RoboDevelopment, and RoboNexus Conference and Exposition series, and the CES Robotics TechZone.
About The Robot Report
The Robot Report is an online technical, business and investment news and information portal focused on robotics and intelligent systems. The site, launched in 2008, also maintains a comprehensive worldwide database of robotics companies, segmented into products and technologies. See www.therobotreport.com .
About Robotics Summit & Showcase
The Robotics Summit & Showcase is an educational forum and exposition dedicated to addressing the technical issues involved with the design, development, manufacture and delivery of commercial robotics and intelligent systems products and services. The Robotics Summit keynotes and general sessions are specifically designed to impart to technical professionals the information they need to successfully develop the next generation of commercial robotics systems, while the Robotics Summit showcase provides attendees with hands on access to the latest design and development solutions for producing robotics and intelligent systems products and services. See www.roboticssummit.com .
About WTWH Media, LLC
WTWH Media is a business-to-business integrated media company that serves engineering, business and investment professionals through 40+ web sites, 5 print publications, along with many other technical and business events. The “WTWH Network” includes The Robot Report, an online technical, business and investment news and information portal focused on robotics and intelligent systems, as well as the Robotics Summit & Showcase, which addresses the technical issues involved with the design, development, manufacture and delivery of commercial robotics and intelligent systems products and services. The WTWH Network, which also includes Design World, EE World, 3D CAD World, Mass Device and other publications and associated events, has approximately 1.9M registered users, 3.3M page views per month and 1.6M followers on social media. More at wtwhmedia.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005091/en/
WTWH Media, LLC
Marshall Matheson, 805.895.3609
mmatheson@wtwhmedia.com
Source: WTWH Media, LLC