COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- R9B (root9B, LLC), a leading provider of advanced cybersecurity products, services, and training, today announced two new additions to its executive team to meet the needs of the company's growth. The additions to the R9B executive team include Steve Picot as Chief Revenue Officer, who will lead the company's customer-facing and marketing functions, and Jack Bruckner as Chief Financial Officer, who will be responsible for R9B's financial and business operations.
"The expansion of our leadership team is an integral part of the company's strategy, and comes at a time when our products, services, and customer base are facing continued growth and financial performance," said Eric Hipkins, Chief Executive Officer, R9B. "Steve and Jack will further enrich our team with the skills and expertise needed to continue driving this momentum and helping address our customers' needs in safeguarding their enterprises with the latest innovation in advanced cyber technologies."
"As our products, services, and customer-base continues to expand, it is crucial we have the experience and talent in place to guide R9B's profitable growth," added Hipkins. "Steve and Jack bring over 40 years of experience to R9B. We're very pleased to welcome them as part of our executive team, and look forward to driving additional customer growth, brand awareness, and strong financial performance."
Steve Picot, Chief Revenue Officer:
Mr. Picot has held positions from systems engineer to chief executive officer in his over two-decade long career. Most recently, he served as Chief Sales Officer at IronNet Cybersecurity where he played a key role in achieving over 200 percent growth in revenue for the venture-funded behavioral analytics company. Picot also served as Chief Executive Officer at Ascolta LLC, a privately-funded cyber analytics company. His positions spanned from systems engineer, sales, sales management, to technical consulting while he served at Cisco, Brocade, SAS and KPMG. Prior to his business career, he served for eight years in the U.S. Marine Corps.
Jack Bruckner, Chief Financial Officer:
Mr. Bruckner, a Colorado native, joins from private-equity owned, medical services company Schryver Medical Sales and Marketing LLC. He served as Vice President of Finance and Accounting and supported the M&A activities for seven healthcare company acquisitions, doubling sales to over $100 million annually. Bruckner has also had significant roles within HukariAscendent, CIBER, Vexcel Corporation, and Northrup Grumman. He is an active member of the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) and the Institute of Certified Management Accountants (ICMA).
About R9B
Based in Colorado Springs, CO, R9B (root9B, LLC) is a leading provider of advanced cybersecurity services and training for commercial and government clients. Combining cutting-edge technology, tactics development, specialty tools, and deep mission experience, R9B personnel leverage their extensive backgrounds in the U.S. Intelligence Community to conduct advanced vulnerability analysis, penetration testing, digital forensics, incident response, industrial control system (ICS) security, and active adversary pursuit (HUNT) engagements on networks worldwide. R9B is a portfolio company of Tracker Capital Management, an early-stage investor focused principally on emerging technologies and companies with the potential to advance U.S. national security interests. For more information, visit www.root9b.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/r9b-expands-executive-team-300587644.html
SOURCE root9B, LLC