COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Lancaster Pollard has hired Adam Zeiger as a managing director with the firm’s mergers and acquisitions (M&A) group. Zeiger will lead business development efforts for the firm’s growing sell-side and buy-side advisory services for seniors housing and care properties.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005985/en/
Adam Zeiger will be based in Lancaster Pollard's Chicago office. (Photo: Business Wire)
“We could not be more excited to have Adam as part of our team,” said Chad Elliott, also a managing director in Lancaster Pollard’s M&A group. “His impressive career track record, as well as his plethora of strong relationships in the seniors housing and care industry, will substantially contribute to, among other things, our ability to deliver outlier results with enhanced certainty of execution for our clients.”
Before joining Lancaster Pollard, Zeiger was most recently a senior investment officer at Care Capital Properties, Inc., where he led the development and implementation of investment and marketing strategy. Prior to that, he was a senior vice president of sales at GE Capital, where he was consistently a leading originator.
“As an accomplished team leader and dealmaker with exceptional transactional skills, Adam will be a natural fit with our firm and M&A group,” said Kass Matt, president of Lancaster Pollard. “We look forward to working with him to further bolster the comprehensive M&A services we provide the seniors housing and care sector.”
With three decades of experience as an advisor, investor, lender, buyer and seller, Lancaster Pollard has a specialized understanding of local and national markets, and relationships with a wide variety of strategic and financial buyers and investors. Through its orchestrated M&A process, the firm aims to provide sellers with access to qualified buyers who can complete transactions with minimal disruption to operations. For buyers, Lancaster Pollard offers a full range of debt and equity funding options and valuation assessment.
Zeiger holds a bachelor’s degree in accounting from The Ohio State University and an MBA from University of Maryland, College Park. He will be based out of the firm’s Chicago office and may be contacted at azeiger@lancasterpollard.com or (312) 966-8936.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005985/en/
Lancaster Pollard
Tyler Howard, 614-224-8800
thoward@lancasterpollard.com
Source: Lancaster Pollard