Acquisition will add strategic innovation and development capabilities to support dynamic customer base
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Tegra, a leading apparel manufacturing and supply chain provider, announced today the acquisition of Latitudes LLC, a Portland, Oregon-based provider of screen-printing, development, and embellishment services to leading global apparel brands. The acquisition will expand Tegra’s industry-leading quick response embellishment and distribution offerings for global apparel brands and retailers, while providing regional capacity to better serve the Western United States.
“Adding Latitudes brings us another step closer to achieving our goal of building an industry-leading, vertically-integrated, quick response, apparel manufacturer with unrivaled supply chain capabilities,” said Steve Cochran, Tegra’s CEO. “We welcome the Latitudes operation and its highly skilled team to Tegra.”
The addition of Latitudes adds enhanced art, product development and innovation capabilities to Tegra’s existing operations, and will allow the company to leverage these capabilities to optimize the value it delivers to its evolving retail and consumer channels across North America.
“Latitudes is pleased to join Tegra,” said Larie Thomas, co-founder of Latitudes. “Our talented and innovative team eagerly anticipates the opportunities provided by partnership with this powerful broad-based apparel group.”
Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
About Tegra
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Tegra is a leading vertically integrated apparel manufacturing and supply chain provider. Tegra’s focus is the dynamic sports, team, licensed and activewear markets, serving the industry’s leading brands and retailers via combined operations in the Western Hemisphere. Tegra offers diverse and integrated capabilities of product development and design, cutting and sewing, embellishment, distribution and logistics, and program management via five locations in Central America (Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua) combined with five quick response locations strategically located throughout the United States. For more information, visit www.tegraglobal.com .
Find us on Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn .
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005127/en/
Tegra
Trisha Earls, 757-985-5183
media.inquiries@tegraglobal.com
Source: Tegra