IRVINE, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WNC, a national investor in real estate and community development initiatives, announced today that 20-year financial industry veteran Ray Wolff has joined the firm as senior relationship manager of investor relations.
"With more than two decades of financial industry experience, including a special focus on tax-advantaged corporate investments for more than 10 years, Ray will play an instrumental role in driving our investor relations efforts forward," said Will Cooper Jr., president and chief executive officer of WNC. "We are pleased to have Ray, a highly respected industry professional, join our team in this important role."
Prior to joining WNC, Wolff served as principal director of business development with Carlisle Tax Credit Advisors. In this role, he worked with institutional investors looking to achieve financial objectives or satisfy regulatory requirements that utilize tax credit investments in syndicated low-income housing tax credits and historic funds. Wolff also was vice president at Meridian Investments, raising capital from institutional investors for syndicated tax credit transactions within a 22-state territory. Previously, he spent time with Guardian Life Insurance Company, where he was a part of the company's wholesaling team for equity investments.
Wolff graduated from The New England College of Business and Finance, and holds a FINRA series 7 license.
About WNC
WNC, founded in 1971 and headquartered in Irvine, Calif., is a national investor in real estate and community development initiatives, as well as a leading investor in low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC). WNC has acquired more than $8.3 billion of assets totaling in excess of 1,300 properties in 47 states, Washington D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. WNC's investor base exceeds 19,500 institutional and retail clients, including Fortune 500 companies, multinational banks, and insurance companies. Additional information is available at www.wncinc.com .
Contact
Julie Leber
Spotlight Marketing Communications
949.427.5172 ext. 704
julie@spotlightmarcom.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ray-wolff-joins-wnc-as-senior-relationship-manager-investor-relations-300579141.html
SOURCE WNC