SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Little Gym International , a children's enrichment and development franchise with over 300 locations around the globe, announces that Alex Bingham will be named President and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2018. He will succeed current President and CEO, Ruk Adams. In his new role, Bingham will continue to grow The Little Gym 's legacy as the world's premiere gym for movement-based learning and imaginative play that helps build the confidence and skills needed at each stage of childhood. He plans to enhance company operations and further deliver on the brand promise of providing the Springboard to Life's Adventures for the families it serves, franchisees and employees.
Since joining The Little Gym in 2001, Bingham has held several roles within the company, most recently serving as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Some of his former responsibilities and positions include running a corporate location as a Gym Director, working with franchise owners in both their pre-opening and ongoing operations as a Business Consultant, and managing franchisee support as a VP of Franchise Services. Before joining the corporate team, Bingham was an instructor at The Little Gym of Scottsdale during his college breaks in 1996-1997, and was previously a student at The Little Gym 's original location from age two to five.
"I have been incredibly fortunate to have shared in The Little Gym 's growth, evolution and opportunities over the years. The experience has been nothing short of amazing, from playing an integral role of rebuilding the company in its early years, to seeing us grow into a worldwide brand that impacts the lives of families across the globe," said Ruk Adams, exiting President and CEO of The Little Gym International . "I have complete confidence that my successor, Alex Bingham, will continue to lead The Little Gym to great success in his new role as President and CEO."
" The Little Gym has been a part of my life since the age of two when I was a student, continuing into my young adulthood when I worked as a part-time instructor during college and, finally, turning into a fulfilling career that allows me to make a difference in children's lives at each of our locations," said Alex Bingham, President and CEO of The Little Gym International. "It's a privilege to have my life come full circle as I assume my new role as CEO, and build upon The Little Gym 's reputation in the early childhood development space that Ruk helped to diligently establish."
Ruk Adams retires having served as The Little Gym President and CEO since 2013. For more than 23 years, Adams has held a variety leadership positions, having first joined the corporate team in 1994 as Executive Vice President of Franchise Development, a position he held through 1997. After leaving the company to head sales for Citadel Broadcasting in Salt Lake City from 1997 to 2002, Adams rejoined The Little Gym in a role as Senior Vice Present of Development and Franchise Services. Prior to working at the corporate headquarters, Adams and his wife, Ann, owned and ran one of the original locations of The Little Gym from 1993 to 1995 in Salt Lake City.
For more information on The Little Gym , please visit www.thelittlegym.com .
About The Little Gym
The Little Gym is the premier developer of physical skills in children worldwide. The very first location was established in 1976 by Robin Wes, an innovative educator with a genuine love for children. The Little Gym International, Inc., headquartered in Scottsdale, Ariz., was formed in 1992 to Franchise The Little Gym concept. Today, The Little Gym International has more than 350 locations in 32 countries. For more information, visit The Little Gym at www.TheLittleGym.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-little-gym-international-names-alex-bingham-president-and-ceo-300573673.html
SOURCE The Little Gym International