DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Kosmos Energy (NYSE: KOS) (LSE: KOS) announced today the following schedule for its fourth quarter 2017 results:
Earnings Release: Monday, February 26, 2018, pre-UK market open via BusinessWire, Regulatory News Service, and the Company’s website at www.kosmosenergy.com . Conference Call: Monday, February 26, 2018, at 11:00 a.m. EST. The call will be available via telephone and webcast.
Dial-in telephone numbers:
U.S. / Canada: +1.877.407.3982
International: +1.201.493.6780
Webcast:
investors.kosmosenergy.com
Webcast Conference Call Replay: A replay of the webcast will be available at investors.kosmosenergy.com for approximately 90 days following the event.
About Kosmos Energy
Kosmos is a leading independent oil and gas exploration and production company focused on frontier and emerging areas along the Atlantic Margin. Our assets include existing production and development projects offshore Ghana and Equatorial Guinea, large discoveries offshore Mauritania and Senegal, as well as exploration licenses with significant hydrocarbon potential offshore Suriname, Sao Tome and Principe, Equatorial Guinea, Morocco and Western Sahara. As an ethical and transparent company, Kosmos is committed to doing things the right way. The Company’s Business Principles articulate our commitment to transparency, ethics, human rights, safety and the environment. Read more about this commitment in the Kosmos 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report . Kosmos is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange, and is traded under the ticker symbol KOS. For additional information, visit www.kosmosenergy.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that Kosmos expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Kosmos’ estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on its current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect its businesses and operations. Although Kosmos believes that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to Kosmos. When used in this press release, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “will” or other similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Kosmos, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by the forward-looking statements. Further information on such assumptions, risks and uncertainties is available in Kosmos’ Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings. Kosmos undertakes no obligation and does not intend to update or correct these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125006430/en/
Kosmos Energy
Investor Relations:
Jamie Buckland, +44 (0) 203 954 2831
jbuckland@kosmosenergy.com
or
Rhys Williams, +1-214-445-9693
rwilliams@kosmosenergy.com
or
Media Relations:
Thomas Golembeski, +1-214-445-9674
tgolembeski@kosmosenergy.com
Source: Kosmos Energy