ALHAMBRA, Calif., EMCORE Corporation (NASDAQ:EMKR), a leading provider of advanced Mixed-Signal Optics products that provide the foundation for today’s high-speed communication network infrastructures and leading-edge defense systems, will announce its fiscal 2018 first quarter results for the period ended December 31, 2017 on Tuesday, February 6, 2018 before markets open. A conference call to discuss these results will begin at 8:00 a.m. ET.
Conference Call Information
The company will host a conference call to discuss these results at 8:00 a.m. ET (5:00 a.m. PT) on Tuesday, February 6, 2018. President & Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Rittichier and Chief Financial Officer, Jikun Kim will provide an overview of the results, discuss current business conditions and conduct a question and answer session.
The call will be available, live, to interested parties by dialing 800-289-0517. For international callers, please dial +1 323-794-2423. The conference passcode number is 5753035. The call will be webcast live via the Company's website at http://www.emcore.com . Please go to the site beforehand to register and download any necessary software. A webcast will be available for replay beginning February 6, 2018 following the conclusion of the call on the Company's website.
About EMCORE
EMCORE Corporation is a leading provider of advanced Mixed-Signal Optics products that provide the foundation for today’s high-speed communication network infrastructures and leading-edge defense systems. Our optical chips, components, subsystems and systems enable broadband and wireless providers to continually enhance their network capacity, speed and coverage to advance the free flow of information that empowers the lives of millions of people daily. The Mixed-Signal Optics technology at the heart of our broadband transmission products is shared with our fiber optic gyros and military communications links to provide the aerospace and defense markets state-of-the-art systems that keep us safe in an increasingly unpredictable world. EMCORE’s performance-leading optical components and systems serve a broad array of applications including cable television, fiber-to-the-premise networks, telecommunications, data centers, wireless infrastructure, satellite RF fiber links, navigation systems and military communications. EMCORE has fully vertically-integrated manufacturing capability through its world-class Indium Phosphide (InP) wafer fabrication facility at our headquarters in Alhambra, California, and is ISO 9001 certified in Alhambra and at our facility in Beijing, China. For further information about EMCORE, please visit http://www.emcore.com .
Investor Contacts
EMCORE Corporation
Jikun Kim
+1-626-293-3400
investor@emcore.com
Sapphire Investor Relations, LLC
Erica Mannion or Michael Funari
+1-617-542-6180
investor@emcore.com
Source:EMCORE Corporation