JERICHO, N.Y., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Esquire Financial Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: ESQ) (the "Company"), the holding company for Esquire Bank, National Association ("Esquire Bank"), today announced that Tony Coelho has been elected as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Coelho has been a Board member since 2010, was a prominent member of the U.S. House of Representatives and the author of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Mr. Coelho brings decades of business oversight experience to the Company and a unique perspective on civil justice in today's legal system.
"Esquire Bank helps law firms and injured claimants they protect meet their financial needs during the most challenging times. It's an honor to be elected Vice Chairman of this growing Company and to carry on our mission together," said Tony Coelho.
Tony Coelho has been a member of the Esquire Bank Board of Directors since 2010. In addition to Esquire, Mr. Coelho has served as Chair of the Advisory Board for Bender Consulting Services since 2002 and was Chair and a Board Member for the American Association of People with Disabilities and the Lead Independent Director of Service Corporation International. Mr. Coelho was a prominent member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1978 – 1989. As a member of the House of Representatives, Mr. Coelho authored the Americans with Disabilities Act, widely recognized as one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation in the last 40 years. Mr. Coelho's former and current business affiliations include service on a number of corporate boards and as CEO of Wertheim Schroder Investment Services.
"Our Company's growth and significant achievements are a testament to our effective board and unique business model. Tony has been an integral part of our success and as Vice Chairman will continue to lead our Company towards further growth," said Andrew C. Sagliocca, President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as a member of the Board of Directors.
About Esquire Financial Holdings, Inc.
Esquire Financial Holdings, Inc. is a bank holding company headquartered in Jericho, New York, with one branch office in Garden City, New York and an administrative office in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Its wholly-owned subsidiary, Esquire Bank, National Association, is a full service commercial bank dedicated to serving the financial needs of the legal industry and small businesses nationally, as well as commercial and retail customers in the New York metropolitan area. The bank offers tailored products and solutions to the legal community and their clients as well as dynamic and flexible merchant services solutions to small business owners. For more information, visit www.esquirebank.com .
Contact Information:
Sunshine Sachs
esqbank@sunshinesachs.com
(212) 691-2800
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/esquire-financial-holdings-inc-elects-tony-coelho-as-vice-chairman-300584310.html
SOURCE Esquire Bank