SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Peerspace , the community marketplace that makes finding the perfect space for any gathering simple, today announced that former Ancestry and eBay executive Eric Shoup will join the company as Chief Executive Officer following a year of record growth.
Peerspace also welcomes former macys.com CFO, Gene Domecus, as their Chief Financial Officer, as founder Rony Chammas steps into the role of Chairman and Chief Product Officer. Chammas will return to his product development roots to focus on driving forward Peerspace's vision of becoming the go-to destination for planning events.
These new hires come as the number of gatherings booked on Peerspace in 2017 more than tripled over the previous year. Since the company's inception in 2014, there have been over one million guests who have attended a gathering booked through Peerspace.
"Our growth has made it clear that the opportunity ahead is much greater than we ever could have imagined. Adding both Eric and Gene to the Peerspace executive team is an incredibly exciting and humbling moment for us," said Chammas. "Eric's extensive background developing revolutionary products and scaling business operations, and Gene's finance and investor relations expertise is the ideal combination as we seek to build a platform that brings people together, wherever they may be, to meet, create, and celebrate."
The demand to rent unique spaces by the hour has grown exponentially among both professionals and individuals, cementing the need for a turnkey platform that makes it easy to discover and book both space and event services. Peerspace remains the leader in the category with thousands of locations across the US.
"It's an incredible honor to join Rony and Gene on the Peerspace executive team at such an inflection point for the company," said Shoup. "Given its recent traction, it's clear that the Peerspace team has found an unmet need in the market. I'm excited to help build the company and product that will enable us to achieve our goal of reshaping how the world gets together."
Shoup joins Peerspace with over twenty years of experience building products and growing tech businesses. Most recently, Shoup served as COO of Scribd and previously spent six years leading Ancestry's product team as Chief Product Officer. Prior to that, he spent five years at eBay, where he had responsibility for several of eBay's marketplace products.
Gene Domecus established his career at Macy's, where he was a founding team member of macys.com in 1998 and spent 25 years in a variety of senior executive merchandising and planning roles, including as SVP/CFO of macys.com . More recently, Domecus held the roles of COO and CFO of Blurb, and CFO at Rafter.
About Peerspace
Peerspace is an online marketplace that makes planning events — starting with finding the perfect space — simple. Whether it's a loft for a party, a rooftop for a film shoot, or an art gallery for a meeting, Peerspace empowers people to create one-of-a-kind experiences at any price point. As a peer-to-peer marketplace, Peerspace makes it easy for individuals and businesses to monetize their extra space and showcase it to new audiences.
Founded in April of 2014, Peerspace is headquartered in San Francisco, with offices in Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago. The company's investors include Foundation Capital, Structure Capital, Carthona Capital, and 31VENTURES.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/peerspace-appoints-former-ebay-and-ancestry-executive-eric-shoup-as-ceo-celebrates-1mm-attendees-in-peerspace-locations-300587318.html
SOURCE Peerspace