Experienced security executive to drive revenue, build partnerships, and grow sales channels
IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cylance® Inc. , the company that revolutionized the antivirus and endpoint protection industry with true AI powered prevention that blocks malware, fileless attacks, and today’s most advanced cyberthreats, announced that Chris Scanlan has been named Senior Vice President of North America Sales.
Scanlan brings extensive sales and executive experience to Cylance, including deep relationships with global enterprise customers, strong sales operations leadership, and proven field sales team development. In his role as the SVP of North America Sales, Scanlan will be focused on continuing Cylance’s industry-leading revenue growth, building business partnerships, and growing the capabilities of the sales team. Scanlan will report to John Giacomini, Cylance’s Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales.
Scanlan comes to Cylance after serving as Senior Vice President of worldwide sales at Optiv, where he was responsible for a $2.3 billion business unit with more than 650 employees. Under Scanlan’s direction, Optiv experienced three changes of control and six company acquisitions. Prior to Optiv, Scanlan served in several executive positions at Accuvant, including Senior Vice President of North American Sales, where he led a $1.6 billion business unit with more than 300 employees. At Accuvant, Scanlan increased business by $750 million and was the driving force behind the highly successful acquisition and integration of Fishnet Security in 2015.
“We are thrilled to have Chris join Cylance and drive our North America sales team. He is a proven leader that will continue to drive our industry-leading revenue growth,” said John Giacomini, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales at Cylance. “His extensive experience in the channel, his enterprise customer relationships, and vast knowledge of the cybersecurity landscape will accelerate our growth and enhance customer satisfaction in North America.”
“Cylance is changing the way security is implemented and driving the AI revolution. I bring a unique perspective to the business having been a recommender of Cylance products to many customers for years,” said Scanlan. “Cylance has the right product mix to service customers, while enabling the partner community to leverage Cylance technology for branded service offerings.”
About Cylance Inc.
Cylance is the first company to apply artificial intelligence, algorithmic science, and machine learning to cybersecurity to prevent the most advanced security threats in the world. Built on a breakthrough predictive analysis process, the Cylance AI Platform serves as a foundation for innovative, AI driven security products to address critical attack vectors. The company’s flagship product, CylancePROTECT ® , quickly and accurately identifies what is benign and what is a threat, and prevents malicious code from ever executing on a targeted system. By coupling advanced artificial intelligence and machine learning with a unique understanding of an attacker’s mentality, Cylance provides products and services that are truly predictive and preventive against the most advanced threats. For more information visit: www.cylance.com .
Social Networks
Blog: blog.cylance.com
Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/CylanceInc
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/cylanceinc
YouTube: www.youtube.com/cylanceinc
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005292/en/
Cylance PR Team
+1-844-277-4303
media@cylance.com
or
Bateman Group
Kerry Tescher, +1-415-503-1818
cylance@bateman-group.com
or
Smile on Fridays LLP
Lara Lackie, +44 (0)207 183 2834 / +44 (0)7854 841 892
lara@smileonfridays.com
Source: Cylance Inc.