CLEVELAND, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Brown Gibbons Lang & Company (BGL) is pleased to announce the sale of U-C Coatings, LLC (U-C Coatings), a portfolio company of Argosy Private Equity and Sidereal Capital Group, to High Road Capital Partners. BGL's Industrials & Engineered Materials team served as the exclusive financial advisor to U-C Coatings in the transaction. The specific terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Based in Buffalo, New York, U-C Coatings is a leading manufacturer and distributor of proprietary, branded coatings and wood protection products for the logging, lumber, furniture, and woodworking industries. Products include wood sealers, marking paints, waterproofers, and protective coatings sold under flagship brands ANCHORSEAL®, GEMPAINT®, and Seal-Once®. The company has demonstrated a history of profitable growth through new product development, channel expansion, and complementary acquisitions, including the 2016 purchase of Seal-Once, which expanded its offering of premium waterproofing sealants for wood, concrete, and masonry applications and provided access to new sales channels with an entry into the homebuilder and contractor market.
Tom Johel, CEO of U-C Coatings said, "We appreciate BGL's hard work and dedication to our sale process and are excited to partner with High Road Capital Partners for the next stage of growth for our customers, management, and employees." R. Kenneth Bryant, Managing Partner of Sidereal Capital Group said, "We engaged BGL to represent U-C Coatings because of BGL's significant engineered materials and coatings industry expertise and are very pleased with the result for our shareholders."
To learn more about BGL's Industrials & Engineered Materials Group , please visit: www.bglco.com/industrials
About Brown Gibbons Lang & Company
Brown Gibbons Lang & Company is a leading independent investment bank serving the middle market. BGL specializes in mergers and acquisitions advisory services, debt and equity placements, financial restructuring advice, and valuations and fairness opinions, with global industry teams in Business Services, Consumer, Environmental & Industrial Services, Healthcare & Life Sciences, Industrials, and Real Estate. BGL has offices in Chicago, Cleveland, and Philadelphia and real estate offices in Chicago, Cleveland, Irvine, and San Antonio, in addition to Global M&A partner offices in more than 50 countries across 5 continents. BGL is able to deliver to our clients unparalleled access to strategic relationships, investors, and opportunities globally. For more information, please visit www.bglco.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bgl-announces-the-sale-of-u-c-coatings-300582030.html
SOURCE Brown Gibbons Lang & Company