SANTA CLARA, Calif., Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Hitachi Vantara , a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd. (TSE:6501), today announced two key promotions to its executive team: Brian Householder has been promoted to Chief Executive Officer and Scott Kelly has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer. Both promotions are effective April 1, 2018.
Ryuichi Otsuki, the current CEO of Hitachi Vantara, will leave his role to take an expanded role for Hitachi, Ltd. as Deputy General Manager of Hitachi’s Corporate Sales & Marketing Group and Chairman of Hitachi Global Digital Holdings, the holding company for Hitachi Vantara, oXya and Hitachi Consulting. Otsuki will also serve as Chairman of Hitachi Americas and will continue to reside in Santa Clara, California.
“I am pleased to announce the promotions of Brian and Scott, two critical and successful members of our leadership team,” said Otsuki. “Hitachi Vantara has demonstrated strong performance as the premier partner to deliver to enterprises unprecedented value through data. I look forward to continuing to work with both Brian and Scott in their new roles during this important phase of the company’s growth.”
Prior to being named as Chief Executive Officer, Householder served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Hitachi Vantara where he was responsible for daily operations of the company with global responsibility for product management, sales, service, support, marketing, business development, partner development, finance, legal, IT, logistics, business operations and planning.
In addition to assuming the role of Chief Operating Officer in April, Kelly will continue to serve as Hitachi Vantara’s Chief Transformation Officer, leading the company’s enterprise-wide initiatives to drive its global growth strategy. Prior to his promotion, Kelly also served as Chief Human Resources Officer where he was responsible for all aspects of human resources at Hitachi Vantara, including HR information systems, workforce planning and staffing, total compensation, performance management, management development, leadership succession planning, diversity and advocacy, HR legal compliance, organization development and management support consulting.
About Hitachi Vantara
Hitachi Vantara, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd., helps data-driven leaders find and use the value in their data to innovate intelligently and reach outcomes that matter for business and society. We combine technology, intellectual property and industry knowledge to deliver data-managing solutions that help enterprises improve their customers' experiences, develop new revenue streams, and lower the costs of business. Only Hitachi Vantara elevates your innovation advantage by combining deep information technology (IT), operational technology (OT) and domain expertise. We work with organizations everywhere to drive data to meaningful outcomes. Visit us at www.HitachiVantara.com .
Connect With Hitachi Vantara
Twitter LinkedIn Facebook
About Hitachi, Ltd.
Hitachi, Ltd. (TSE:6501), headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, delivers innovations that answer society's challenges. The company's consolidated revenues for fiscal 2016 (ended March 31, 2017) totaled 9,162.2 billion yen ($81.8 billion). The Hitachi Group is a global leader in Social Innovation and has approximately 304,000 employees worldwide. Through collaborative creation, Hitachi is providing solutions to customers in a broad range of sectors, including Power / Energy, Industry / Distribution / Water, Urban Development, and Finance / Government & Public / Healthcare. For more information, please visit http://www.hitachi.com .
COMPANY CONTACT
Steve Fine
Hitachi Vantara
steve.fine@hitachivantara.com
415 830 7945
HITACHI is a trademark or registered trademark of Hitachi, Ltd. All other trademarks, service marks, and company names are properties of their respective owners.
Source: Hitachi Vantara