HOUSTON, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. (NASDAQ: PTEN) (the "Company") announced today that it has closed its previously announced private offering of $525 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95% senior notes due 2028. The notes initially are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the Company's domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors under its credit agreement.
Andy Hendricks, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, stated, "This debt offering further improved our financial flexibility while maintaining the strength of our balance sheet. We remain well positioned both financially and operationally as a multi-service oilfield services company with a leading position in the U.S. unconventional market for drilling, pressure pumping, and directional drilling."
Mark S. Siegel, Chairman of the Company, added, "I am pleased that our company was recognized with an investment grade rating. Receiving an investment grade rating is another transformational step for Patterson-UTI."
The Company intends to use the net proceeds to repay amounts outstanding under its credit agreement and for general corporate purposes.
The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or blue sky laws.
The notes and the guarantees were offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to persons outside the United States under Regulation S under the Securities Act.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
About Patterson-UTI
Patterson-UTI is a provider of oilfield services and products to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in North America, including market leading positions in contract drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling services. For more information, visit www.patenergy.com .
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements which are protected as forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are not limited to historical facts, but reflect Patterson-UTI's current beliefs, expectations or intentions regarding future events. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "budgeted," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "potential," "project," "pursue," "should," "strategy," "target," or "will," and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding Patterson-UTI's future expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, financial conditions, assumptions or future events or performance that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Patterson-UTI's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: volatility in customer spending and in oil and natural gas prices, which could adversely affect demand for Patterson-UTI's services and their associated effect on rates, utilization, margins and planned capital expenditures; global economic conditions; excess availability of land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, including as a result of low commodity prices, reactivation or construction; liabilities from operations; weather; decline in, and ability to realize, backlog; equipment specialization and new technologies; shortages, delays in delivery and interruptions of supply of equipment and materials; ability to hire and retain personnel; loss of, or reduction in business with, key customers; difficulty with growth and in integrating acquisitions; governmental regulation; product liability; legal proceedings; political, economic and social instability risk; ability to effectively identify and enter new markets; cybersecurity risk; dependence on our subsidiaries to meet our long-term debt obligations; variable rate indebtedness risk; and anti-takeover measures in our charter documents.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in Patterson-UTI's SEC filings. Patterson-UTI's filings may be obtained by contacting Patterson-UTI or the SEC or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov . Patterson-UTI undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patterson-uti-energy-inc-announces-closing-of-senior-notes-offering-300585449.html
SOURCE PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.