MELVILLE, New York, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MELVILLE, New York — (January 2, 2018) — Air Techniques, Inc., a leading innovator and manufacturer of dental equipment, has announced that Robert Meehan has joined Air Techniques as Digital Product Manager. Mr. Meehan will be responsible for the ProVecta X-Ray line as well as the CamX Camera line.
Mr. Meehan has been in the Dental Industry since 2002 and has held sales positions for Planmeca’s CAD/CAM product line as well as CEREC Specialist at Patterson Dental. He has been recognized as Best Performer and attained President Club status over his career. Mr. Meehan holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from the Ancell School of Business at Western Connecticut State University.
“We are very excited to welcome Robert to the Air Techniques team,” stated Christoph Roeer, Chief Executive Officer of Air Techniques. “His experience will complement our current Product Management, while further advancing Air Techniques’ digital product line in this increasingly important segment of the dental market.”
“I am looking forward to being a part of the development of new Air Techniques digital products while strengthening our leadership in digital imaging,” said Robert Meehan. “Air Techniques is well-known for high-quality products, and I look forward to continuing to develop innovative products that will help enhance the patient and customer experience.”
For more information on Air Techniques , please visit: www.airtechniques.com . Become a fan of Air Techniques on Facebook and follow the company on Twitter and Instagram . Air Techniques has a strong product portfolio of utility systems, digital imaging and merchandise, Air Techniques’ products are capable of equipping the smallest practice to the largest university or hospital.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/e035d64b-89b1-48c8-b2b3-b4d25be23c8e
Kelly Billig Air Techniques 516-214-5584 kelly.billig@airtechniques.com
Source: Air Techniques