Wootton to Accelerate Percolate’s Focus on Content Marketing and Enterprise Customer Growth
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Percolate, the System of Record for Marketing®, today announced digital marketing veteran Randy Wootton has joined the team as Chief Executive Officer to lead the company through its next phase of growth.
Co-founder and previous CEO Noah Brier will continue to lead the technical vision for the Percolate platform as Chief Technology Officer. Co-founder and President James Gross will continue with Percolate in an executive leadership role focused on sales and customer growth.
“I’m excited to join Percolate as it leads the next wave of marketing technology innovation,” Wootton said. “Consumers today are overwhelmed by information and yet they still expect personal engagement with brands. Percolate enables marketers to manage and improve every step in the marketing process so that brands can create meaningful, evolving experiences with consumers.”
Wootton comes to Percolate with a wide range of experiences scaling marketing and technology platforms around the world. He was most recently CEO at predictive marketing pioneer and industry leader Rocket Fuel, where he re-positioned the company as an AI-driven SaaS platform, and ultimately sold it to Sizmek. Prior to Rocket Fuel, Wootton held senior positions at Microsoft and Salesforce and helped both companies achieve triple-digit revenue growth rates for the products and services he oversaw. He started his career as a naval aviator, and has an MBA from Harvard, a Master of Liberal Arts from St. John’s College and a bachelor’s degree from the U.S. Naval Academy.
Content -- in all its forms -- is the brand experience today. Marketers strive for one brand and one story across multiple campaigns, but are challenged by hundreds of touch points along a consumer’s journey. Percolate helps orchestrate this new marketing reality for more than 800 leading brands in more than 90 countries, and its customers save millions of dollars and thousands of hours of work each year leveraging the Percolate platform.
“Randy has had a front row seat to the transformation happening in marketing, giving him a unique understanding of the challenges brands face with the competing priorities of more content across more channels while at the same time needing to drive consistent, clear communications,” Brier said. “We appreciate the strength that Randy brings to Percolate, especially as we enter an exciting next chapter and strive for continuous improvement in growing this new and valuable platform that is dedicated to serving the world’s largest brands.”
Percolate is backed by $74 million in venture capital from Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners, GGV Capital, and First Round Capital, among others.
“Randy’s unique style of leadership, combined with Noah and James’s success to date, will advance Percolate’s superior position in the content marketing space,” said Sequoia partner Michael Dixon. “We’re confident that Percolate will continue to define the marketing technology landscape for years to come.”
About Percolate
Percolate is The System of Record for Marketing®. Backed by Sequoia Capital, GGV, and Lightspeed Venture Partners, Percolate is one of the fastest growing companies in enterprise software. More than 800 global brands, including GE, Unilever, BP, United Airlines, Land O Lakes, EA, Johnson Controls, Mastercard, Levi’s, Cisco, and Cigna, trust Percolate to manage their global content marketing, increase sales growth, and improve the customer experience they deliver. Visit www.percolate.com for more information.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005695/en/
Bite Communications for Percolate
Bethany Mullinix, 901-871-3169
bethany.mullinix@biteglobal.com
Source: Percolate