MELBOURNE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) has named retired U.S. Army Major General Jeff Smith Vice President of Business Development, supporting the company’s strategic relationships with the U.S. Army, U.S. Special Operations Command and other key industry partners.
Smith brings more than 30 years of leadership experience, including serving as Deputy Commanding General of the XVIII Airborne Corp and command assignments with the 82 nd Airborne, 101 st Air Assault and 10 th Mountain divisions, with deployments to Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo. Most recently, he was Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives at Sallyport Global Holdings Inc., where he led their strategy, business development and operations organizations.
Smith holds a bachelor’s degree from Columbus State University and master’s degrees in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College and in administration from Central Michigan University. [ Photo Link ]
Harris has been a mission partner with the U.S. Army for nearly 60 years, providing technologies that enable the connected battlefield. The company has delivered over one million tactical radios to warfighters around the globe and is on the program of record for all major Army radio modernization initiatives. Harris provides advanced solutions for multi-domain command and control (C2); intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR); strategic and tactical SATCOM communications; electronic warfare (EW); and space innovation that enable the Army to quickly adapt to changing or future needs. The company is building adaptable systems for the future that leverage open systems architecture and software-defined capabilities to ensure mission success, even in contested environments.
About Harris Corporation
Harris Corporation is a leading technology innovator, solving customers’ toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. Harris supports government and commercial customers in more than 100 countries and has approximately $6 billion in annual revenue. The company is organized into three business segments: Communication Systems, Electronic Systems and Space and Intelligence Systems. Learn more at harris.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005063/en/
Harris Corporation
Jim Burke, 321-727-9131
jim.burke@harris.com
Source: Harris Corporation