Combined Entity is Texas’ First Fully-Integrated Digital and Traditional Marketing Firm
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Integrate Agency , an award-winning, Houston-based, public relations and social media agency, founded by Allie Danziger in 2009, has been acquired by Wellington Group Marketing & PR , a digital marketing, branding and public relations firm with offices in Houston and Austin. The combined company will be Texas’ first truly integrated digital and traditional marketing agency, offering a complete suite of traditional, digital and social media services.
The new entity will operate as Integrate Agency and will be led by Wellington Group’s CEO, Robbie Wright, and Allie Danziger, serving as president. The joint company will be home to more than 30 professionals, providing clients a collective offering of traditional public relations, social media, community partnerships and marketing services, combined with website optimization, digital conversion, paid media, content, digital innovation and customer-first oriented design.
“Integrate was founded on the premise of continuously evolving with the constantly emerging market trends, to offer clients the most cutting edge tactics that connect them with their target audiences most effectively,” said Danziger. “Ten years ago, we shook up the public relations scene by offering social media as a part of the traditional PR mix. Today, the marketing world has evolved again and, as our clients’ needs have shifted, so will we. Robbie and the Wellington team are the perfect group of entrepreneurial-minded partners to expand our collective offerings and provide clients the truly integrated marketing approach we know they need.”
Integrate will continue to operate towards its mission of providing clients with a full-service marketing solution that will change their businesses. This acquisition will allow for the creation and execution of an even more strategically-driven integration of public relations and digital marketing efforts.
“Allie has a tremendous amount of talent and industry experience and I couldn’t be more excited about the chance to work with her and the Integrate team,” said Wright. “This acquisition more than doubles the size of our business and it also presents an opportunity to provide an unparalleled service to our client base thanks to the combined talent and experience of the Integrate and Wellington teams.”
Wellington is comprised of a leadership team who have created and exited multiple start-ups and bring a strong digital expertise to the business. While still offering core public relations, marketing and social media services, the company has brought in a digital team with a strong track record of growing businesses with more than 70 years combined digital marketing experience in website optimization, digital conversion, customer-first oriented design and development, paid media, digital innovation and operations.
For more information regarding Integrate Agency, please visit www.integrateagency.com .
For media inquiries, please contact Cristina Calderon at cristina@integrateagency.com or 713-225-0880 or Rachel Nieto at rachel@wellingtongrouppr.com or 281-206-4788.
Integrate Agency
Integrate Agency, an award-winning public relations and social media agency founded in 2009 by president and founder, Allie Danziger, specializes in curating public relations strategies to integrate social media, community relations, graphic design, and more to support its clients’ goals and effectively reach defined target audiences within the ever-evolving communications landscape. Over the years, Integrate has been recognized by PRSA Houston, IABC Houston and AMA Houston for its award-winning client work, as well as being named the Top Mid-Sized Agency of the Year from PRSA Houston.
Wellington Group Marketing & PR
Wellington Group Marketing & PR was founded in 2007 with the idea of helping business owners and leaders with customized and innovative marketing and communications strategies—a vision alive and well today. Wellington was acquired in 2017 by the investor group SPARK, Wright, and Colgin. The company delivers creative and results-driven digital marketing and PR programs that generate powerful recognition of brands and delivers growth that positively impacts the success of businesses. Wellington Group partners with brands big and small – startups, corporations and everything in between – to deliver tailor-made solutions and results based on each company’s unique needs and goals.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005479/en/
Integrate Agency
Cristina Calderon, 713-225-0880
cristina@integrateagency.com
or
Wellington Group Marketing & PR
Rachel Nieto, 281-206-4788
rachel@wellingtongrouppr.com
Source: Integrate Agency