NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Academy Securities, a registered broker-dealer, certified Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (DVBE), and Minority Business Enterprise (MBE), today announced the addition of Lieutenant General David A. Deptula to its Advisory Board.
Lieutenant General Deptula served in the United States Air Force for more than 34 years where he took part in operations, planning, and command leadership at the most senior levels. He was the principal attack planner for the 1991 Operation Desert Storm air campaign, commander of no-fly-zone operations over Iraq in the late 1990s, and director of the air campaign over Afghanistan in 2001. Additionally, Lieutenant General Deptula was twice a joint task force commander and was the air commander for the 2005 South Asia tsunami relief operations. His last assignment was as the Air Force’s first deputy chief of staff for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), where he transformed America’s military ISR and drone enterprises.
“We are thrilled to add such a highly-esteemed individual to our firm’s Advisory Board,” stated Academy’s Chairman and CEO Chance Mims. “Lieutenant General Deptula will add tremendous value advising on military issues around the world, especially where the projection of air power is involved.”
Lieutenant General Deptula commented on joining Academy Securities: “I'm honored to join the Advisory Board of Academy Securities. At a time where geopolitical conditions around the world are more complex than ever, I look forward to working with the Academy team of national security experts and practitioners to provide unique insights to the industry. Never has there been a time when clients can benefit more from the invaluable perspective on global capital markets that Academy can provide.”
Currently, Lieutenant General Deptula serves as the Dean of the Mitchell Institute for Aerospace Studies in Arlington, Virginia, and is a Senior Military Scholar at the U.S. Air Force Academy. He is a fighter pilot with more than 3,000 flying hours (400 in combat) including multiple command assignments in the F-15. Defense News Magazine named him one of the 100 most influential people in U.S. defense in 2014.
“Academy Securities is privileged to continue to expand our advisory board with such a dynamic individual. He will bring a unique perspective that will be additive to our client offering and social mission,” said Phil McConkey, President of Academy Securities.
About Academy Securities
Academy Securities is a preeminent disabled veteran owned investment bank with strength in capital markets, public finance, fixed income and equity trading. Leadership and staff have had intensive military training prior to entering and gaining in depth financial services experience in global capital markets. We are mission driven with a high ethical code, a solid sense of accountability and strive for excellence in the pursuit of our clients’ success. Intellectual assets, strong visionary leaders and a proud team commitment bring out the best in each other for the benefit of our clients. Academy is our nation’s first and only post-9/11 disabled veteran owned investment bank and is a certified as a DVBE, SDVOSB, and MBE. The firm has a strong top and middle tier client base served by a national platform with offices in New York, Chicago, Boston, San Diego and Chapel Hill. Information about Academy Securities is available at www.academysecurities.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005576/en/
Academy Securities
Michael Boyd, 646-736-3995
Chief Compliance Officer
mboyd@academysecurities.com
Source: Academy Securities