0 COMMENTS Good morning. It’s a little early for whisky, but pull up a bar stool and hear me out. If you’re a fan of liquor-related puns, you’ll enjoy this neat WSJ A-Hed all about how Diageo formed a secret task force to attempt to change rules and hundreds of years of tradition around how Scotch must be made, in the hope of arresting the drink’s declining market share. It’s not all whisky a-go-go: Scotch watchers say the distiller will face strong opposition to its proposals.
Every Gambler Knows That the Secret to Survivin’ Is Knowin’ What to Throw Away and Knowin’ What to Keep A bumper bag of consumer-goods news landed on Tuesday, and it was uneasy reading for Madison Avenue. Procter & Gamble has spent the last few years slashing agency costs , and the Cincinnati CPG giant still has a taste for it. As Ad Age reports, P&G is looking to cut an additional $400 million in agency and production costs , having already saved around $750 million annually in recent years. The plan is to automate more media planning, production and distribution and bring more work in-house. P&G also said there’s more room to eliminate digital ad waste. Speaking of costs, P&G has also been bringing down the prices of its own products in a bid to win back customers. Huggies and Kleenex-maker Kimberly-Clark said Tuesday that its rival’s discounting was partly to blame for weaker sales as it announced a broad restructuring, which includes at least 5,000 layoffs.
Harassment and Madison Avenue Life within an ad agency often requires a level of client interaction—traveling together, spending long hours on shoots, going to lunches and off-site evening events. A lawsuit filed Tuesday by a former employee of IPG’s Initiative media agency shines a light on how sexual-harassment issues can extend beyond what happens within a firm, CMO Today reports. The female employee claims she was sexually assaulted by a client at Dr Pepper at a happy hour event. After reporting the incident, the plaintiff alleges her work environment became hostile and that she was advised by a manager to shift to a different account, putting her in an “intolerable situation” that made her decide to leave. Dr Pepper says it terminated the employee after Initiative informed the company about the alleged assault. Initiative said it reprimanded the female employee’s manager who had delayed reporting the incident to management. The media agency also said it offered the employee the choice to stay on the account or move to a comparable assignment. The alleged incident shows how staffers in client-services industries can be vulnerable in dealings with key business partners.
This Is the Anthem, Throw All Your Hands Up A time-honored tradition of the pre-Super Bowl period is the annual banned ad. This year, it’s not a TV spot that’s staying in the can on game day; a print ad for the Super Bowl program is resigned to the drawing board. Veterans group AMVETS submitted an ad to the third-party publisher of the program last week with the tagline “Please Stand,” in reference to the recent anthem protests, ESPN reports. An NFL spokesman said the league program has never been a place for ads perceived to be making political statements, but it offered AMVETS the chance to edit the ad. The two organizations weren’t able to come to an agreement in time for the print deadline. AMVETS has described the ad rejection as “corporate censorship” and noted the same ad was approved by the NHL and NBA for their official programs. Now, the ad has arguably received more publicity than if it had landed in the program, hassle free.
—Never Forget—
The banned ad is a news cycle well-traveled. Last year, construction-supply company 84 Lumber was relatively unknown until it made headlines after saying Super Bowl broadcaster Fox rejected its border wall-themed ad for being too political . The ad was re-cut, with the ending removed, inviting people to watch the conclusion of the story on 84 Lumber’s website, which appeared to crash on game day. That same year (can you believe this was all just a year ago?) the NFL barred vitamins retailer GNC’s Super Bowl ad from broadcast, just six days before the big game.
Fake It ‘Til You Make It I’ve linked to a few articles in this newsletter recently about the scourge of malicious redirect ads that have plagued the internet for a while but seem to have become more prevalent recently. Now cybersecurity firm Confiant appears to have found some of the culprits. A group it is calling “Zirconium” set up a consortium of 28 fake ad agencies that bought an estimated 1 billion impressions last year on “62% of the internet’s ad-monetized websites on a weekly basis,” Ars Technica reports. Schemes like these tend to make money by tricking users into downloading malware or paying for scams, or by selling redirect traffic on to affiliates. Most of the fake agencies had their own websites and social media profiles, tricking 16 ad platforms into doing business with the fraudsters. Confiant won’t release the names of the ad tech firms in question, but the scheme raises questions about vendors’ vetting processes—especially when major publishers are risking eroding trust with their readers after unwittingly hosting such ads. I do have somewhat of a happy ending for you: Google is releasing the new version of its Chrome browser this month, which blocks those pesky redirects.
Best of the rest Twitter COO Anthony Noto is leaving the company to become CEO of fintech startup SoFi. “I don’t see how anyone can interpret this as a good thing for Twitter,” said RBC Capital analyst Mark Mahaney. [ Business Insider ]
Measurement firm comScore is reportedly exploring its options, including a potential sale. [ Bloomberg ]
Snapchat now allows users to share content from the app on third-party platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter and email. [ WSJ ]
Facebook’s user survey that will help it determine which publishers people deem trustworthy contains just two questions. [ BuzzFeed News ]
Facebook Chief Marketing Officer Gary Briggs is retiring from the company, but he will be advising other firms, sitting on boards and helping the Democratic Party. Mr. Briggs has been at Facebook since 2013. [ Recode ]
Advertising holding company M&A was down 46% in deal value in 2017, while consulting groups marked a 134% increase in investment in marketing services assets, according to marketing consultancy R3. [ MediaPost ]
Barstool Sports has raised an additional $15 million from its majority owner that the digital media site plans to use to create branded properties, such as alcohol or its own bar, and to expand the Rough N Rowdy amateur-boxing promoter it recently acquired. [ Bloomberg ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.o'reilly@wsj.com