EMERYVILLE, Calif., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Newfi Lending, a technology-enabled residential mortgage lender and portfolio company of Warburg Pincus, today announced that it has hired John Boyles for the newly-created position of Senior Vice President of Capital Markets, where he will lead the ongoing development of its capital markets strategies.
Mr. Boyles brings over 24 years of mortgage banking experience to Newfi Lending, with expertise in business development, product innovation, and organizational leadership. He recently worked in the traditional retail channel for Freedom Mortgage. Previously, he served for over ten years as Vice President of Capital Markets for Opes Advisors, where he oversaw correspondent and warehouse banking relationships. He also led initiatives to generate originator/servicer ratings with Standard & Poor's, Fitch Group, and Kroll Bond Ratings.
"The addition of John to our growing team is a major step in developing our bench strength here at Newfi Lending," said Newfi Lending CEO Steve Abreu. "By adding domain experts like John to our management team, we're deepening our organizational capabilities as well as expanding our ability to find the broad range of loan programs that our customers expect."
Newfi Lending currently has operations in 9 states: Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Oregon, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Utah, and Washington. The company has received licensing approval for 16 states and plans to operate in over 20 states by the end of 2018.
About Newfi Lending
Founded in 2014 by industry veterans, Newfi Lending is a national mortgage lender reshaping the borrowing experience through a combination of proprietary technology, product innovation, and personal touch. Newfi delivers a more efficient and transparent process resulting in lower costs and higher levels of customer satisfaction and trust. For more information, visit www.newfilending.com .
Media Contact
For Newfi Lending:
Daniel Silver
510-907-3463
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/newfi-lending-appoints-john-boyles-as-senior-vice-president-of-capital-markets-300588728.html
SOURCE Newfi Lending