SAN RAFAEL, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Private Ocean, a Marin County wealth management firm, today announced that it has acquired Lakeview Financial Group, a Seattle-based registered investment advisory firm with $380M in assets under management. Lakeview will now operate as Private Ocean and continue to operate in its current location in Seattle.
“Private Ocean is always striving to grow intentionally, and with our shared values and culture with the team at Lakeview, we saw a perfect fit,” said Greg Friedman, MS, CFP®, CEO and Co-Founder of Private Ocean. “We are delighted to expand our services to clients on the West Coast and beyond, and look forward to working alongside these experienced, successful and talented advisors.”
Founded in 2006, Lakeview Financial Group takes a deeply personal approach to wealth management, offering unbiased guidance tailored to serve an individual client’s goals and values. With an average of 20+ years of experience, all of Lakeview’s lead advisors take the time to understand the complete landscape of their clients’ lives and continuously help evolve their financial plans and offer creative solutions to unique challenges.
“Over the last 18 months since we initially met Greg and the Private Ocean team, we have been struck by our firms’ similarities in philosophy and the client process,” said Julie Back, CFP®, Partner at Lakeview Financial Group. “We look forward to joining forces to further our shared vision of personable, hands-on client service and collaborative relationships built on trust.”
For more information, visit www.privateocean.com and follow Private Ocean on Twitter @_privateocean
About Private Ocean
Private Ocean is a wealth management firm deliberately structured to give clients the intimate experience of a small firm, while harnessing the power, depth and discipline of a much larger one. The Private Ocean team seamlessly integrates personal financial planning and institutional-class investing. Private Ocean clients interact directly with a tight-knit team of specialists led by recognized industry leaders and pioneers in planning, investing, ethics and technology.
In 2017, Private Ocean was named Best Wealth Management firm by North Bay Biz and has been named one of the Best Places to Work by The North Bay Business Journal in 2017 and the San Francisco Business Times in 2015. Richard Stone was honored with the Schwab IMPACT® Leadership Award at the 2011 Schwab IMPACT® conference. CEO Greg Friedman was named to InvestmentNews 2017 Icons and Innovators list and has appeared on Investment Advisor’s 25 Most Influential list. In 2011, Friedman received the Investment News Industry Influencer Award. He received the Schwab IMPACT® Best in Tech Award in 2007.
Formed in 2009, Private Ocean ( www.privateocean.com ) combined two of the oldest privately-held wealth management firms in the San Francisco Bay Area – Salient Wealth Management and Friedman & Associates. Founded by Richard Stone and Greg Friedman, the firm has over $1.2 billion in assets under management. Private Ocean works with senior executives, business owners and other affluent individuals with a minimum of $2 million to invest.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006285/en/
Private Ocean
Angela Giombetti, 919-986-1074
angela.giombetti@privateocean.com
Source: Private Ocean