Cyber Investigative Center Will Advance Research, Development, and Innovation
ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Secure Systems Innovation Corporation (SSIC), a cyber risk analytics firm that empowers informed business decision making, is enhancing its digital forensics and cyber investigative capabilities, including the expansion of a sophisticated computer forensics laboratory and dynamic research, development, and innovation center, as well as augmenting its leadership team.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005587/en/
Curtis W. Rose, Chief Digital Forensics Officer, SSIC (Photo: Business Wire)
Under Chief Digital Forensics Officer Curtis W. Rose , a co-founder and original chief technology officer at Mandiant, SSIC’s computer forensics laboratory will optimize digital forensic strategies. This will offer clients distinct litigation advantages, reducing the exposure and impact associated with litigation in the digital world.
“The complexity of the digital age—and the multitude of bad actors keen to exploit it—has opened up a new world of cybercrime, including intellectual property theft and other attacks on the integrity of business operations,” said John Frazzini, president and CEO of SSIC. “Our clients seek advantages related to mitigating adverse outcomes associated with their litigation challenges. Our experienced digital forensics approach enables litigators to maximize both legal and business outcomes.”
Rose provides expert testimony and on-site litigation support as needed. He has provided digital forensics expertise for high-profile criminal federal, civil, cybercrime, and international cases, covering an extremely wide range of matters including fraud, intellectual property and trade secret theft, computer intrusions, capital offenses, and terrorist activity in support of the U.S. Department of Justice, the FBI, major law firms, Fortune 500 companies, and international organizations. A frequent speaker and author who literally wrote the book on digital forensics, Rose is widely considered a pioneer in the field of modern digital forensics.
Coming directly from the U.S. cyber-intelligence community, Mika Devonshire joins Rose as the company’s director of digital forensics. Recognized as one of the brightest emerging minds in the field of digital forensics, Devonshire leverages her hands-on cyber warfare experience and deep network engineering expertise. She applies the latest methodologies, principles, and tools—including mobile incident response, Internet of Things forensics, and memory analysis—to her role in leading SSIC’s computer forensics laboratory and innovation center.
For organizations suffering from a data compromise, intellectual property theft or in need of e-discovery support and analysis, SSIC offers a complete digital forensics and investigative response service that supports the entire lifecycle of an investigation, from the initial discovery phase through legal resolution. Our forensics investigators support some of the most high-profile cyber cases, as well as deliver unparalleled expert testimony and forensics consulting. To learn more, visit https://www.securesystemscorp.com/services/digital-forensics .
About SSIC
Based in the Washington, D.C. area, Secure Systems Innovation Corporation (SSIC) is a cyber risk analytics firm that empowers informed business decision making. Its innovative, patented method for measuring and modeling cyber risk, X-Analytics™, enables customers to quantify their cyber risk posture in simple economic terms. SSIC is at the forefront of helping customers transform complicated security data into powerful business intelligence. Visit www.securesystemscorp.com for more information.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005587/en/
Secure Systems Innovation Corporation (SSIC)
Brianna Carroll Boyle , 301-502-9012
bboyle@securesystemscorp.com
Source: Secure Systems Innovation Corporation (SSIC)