VENTURA, Calif., Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Co-authors Brad Lockwood and Chris Hoover are proud to announce the release of their nonfiction book "How We Got Trumped: From Kennedy to Chaos." It is the first full accounting of President Trump's first year in office, as well as the definitive story of his life, framed against 10 prior presidents.
"How We Got Trumped" offers critical context and rare facts - including over 400 sources and a full index for readers to explore in detail. Trump's early life and roller-coaster business career are explored, including curious connections to the mob and Russia, four corporate bankruptcies and his many failed bids for NFL ownership and the presidency.
"Anything is possible with Donald Trump, given his 30-plus years of doing business with Russians and four corporate bankruptcies," explained co-author Chris Hoover, who has two published books prior and conjured the concept for this book out of concern. "More so, what does it say about our country to elect a man like him?"
Released on the eve of Donald Trump's first inaugural anniversary, "How We Got Trumped" is timely and answers many questions:
What kind of a president has Donald Trump been so far, compared to others?
Why is his son Baron's name so familiar to reporters who received calls from Trump's supposed publicist?
How much is Donald Trump exactly worth?
As investigations into Russian collusion with the Trump campaign escalate, potential outcomes for Trump – and America – are offered as are prior presidents facing similar challenges, investigations included.
"Contrasted against other presidents, Trump is truly unique, to say the least," offered Brad Lockwood, the award-winning author of 15 books and an investigative journalist for Forbes and other major outlets. "How other presidents have confronted and overcome emergencies while in office shines a bright light on Trump's life and offers a warning of how he has governed thus far."
Available in paperback and Kindle e-book formats, "How We Got Trumped: From Kennedy to Chaos" may be purchased online at www.amazon.com/dp/1983873772 .
Media Contact
Christopher Hoover
720-343-6006
cjhoover44@gmail.com
Related Files
How We Got Trumped info and excerpts.pdf
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/how-we-got-trumped-from-kennedy-to-chaos---the-first-book-on-president-trumps-first-year-in-office-released-300585158.html
SOURCE "How We Got Trumped"