GREENFIELD, Ind., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Elanco Animal Health, a division of Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY), received two of the top honors in both food and companion animal innovation from Animal Pharm , a leading industry publication. During the 2017 award cycle, Galliprant (grapiprant tablets) was named Animal Pharm's Best Companion Animal Product and Clynav took top honors as best food animal product.
"Elanco has been working to bring innovation to our customers and the animals they care for since 1954," said Aaron Schacht, Vice President of global research and development at Elanco."To be recognized as a leading innovator in both the veterinarian's office and by producers is deeply gratifying, and a testament to our commitment to animal health. These awards also recognize that Elanco can leverage internal and external innovation approaches to introduce new products."
Designed to honor achievements within the animal health sector during a calendar year, Animal Pharm's awards are decided by an independent panel of industry experts.
"The judging panel commended Elanco's products as being first-in-class. Personally, I think both of these products highlight two areas ripe for exciting growth in the animal health space," said Joseph Harvey, editor of Animal Pharm. "Firstly, Galliprant is shaking up the competition in the canine osteoarthritis pain space. Secondly, Clynav showcases Elanco's innovation capabilities in the aquaculture health market."
About Galliprant
Galliprant, which provides targeted pain control from the earliest diagnosed stages of canine osteoarthritis, was made commercially available to veterinarians in January 2017 through a license and collaboration agreement with Aratana Therapeutics, Inc. Galliprant is the first piprant (a non-COX-inhibiting prostaglandin receptor antagonist) approved for use in veterinary medicine. As a targeted tool for the management of pain and inflammation
associated with canine osteoarthritis (OA), it represents the evolution of canine anti-inflammatory drugs by specifically blocking the prostaglandin E 2 EP4 receptor, which is the primary mediator of OA pain and inflammation. 1
About Clynav
Clynav, a solution for injection, was approved for use by the European Commission in June 2017 for the active immunisation of Atlantic salmon to reduce impaired daily weight gain, and reduce mortality, and cardiac, pancreatic and skeletal muscle lesions caused by pancreas disease following infection with salmonid alphavirus subtype 3 (SAV3).It was subsequently granted a marketing authorization in Norway in July 2017 in accordance with the terms of the Centralized Procedure.
The 2017 awards are Elanco's fourth and fifth Animal Pharm awards. The company has previously won Best Company North America 2014 and Best Product Portfolio 2015. Elanco's President, Jeff Simmons, has also previously been honored for his role as an inspirational leader.
Galliprant Important Safety Information
Not for use in humans. For use in dogs only. Keep this and all medications out of reach of children and pets. Store out of reach of dogs and other pets in a secured location in order to prevent accidental ingestion or overdose. Do not use in dogs that have a hypersensitivity to grapiprant. If Galliprant is used long term, appropriate monitoring is recommended. Concomitant use of Galliprant with other anti-inflammatory drugs, such as COX-inhibiting NSAIDs or corticosteroids, should be avoided. Concurrent use with other anti-inflammatory drugs or protein-bound drugs has not been studied. The safe use of Galliprant has not been evaluated in dogs younger than 9 months of age and less than 8 lbs. (3.6 kg), dogs used for breeding, pregnant or lactating dogs, or dogs with cardiac disease. The most common adverse reactions were vomiting, diarrhea, decreased appetite, and lethargy. For full prescribing information call 1-888-545-5973.
About Elanco
Elanco provides comprehensive products and knowledge services to improve animal health and food-animal production in more than 70 countries around the world. We value innovation, both in scientific research and daily operations, and strive to cultivate a collaborative work environment for more than 6,500 employees worldwide. Together with our customers, we are committed to raising awareness about global food security, and celebrating and supporting the human-animal bond. Founded in 1954, Elanco is a division of Eli Lilly and Company. Our worldwide headquarters and research facilities are located in Greenfield, Indiana. Visit us at Elanco.com and EnoughMovement.com .
GCAAFFGLP00002
1 Kirkby Shaw, K, Rausch-Derra, LC, and Rhodes, L. 2015. "Grapiprant: an EP4 prostaglandin receptor antagonist and novel therapy for pain and inflammation." Veterinary Medicine and Science: 1-7.
PDF - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/630555/Elanco_Animal_Health.pdf
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/elanco-innovations-named-best-products-for-2017-300584719.html
SOURCE Elanco Animal Health