NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Evercore (NYSE: EVR) announced today that Adam Taetle will join its Investment Banking business in April as Head of the Firm's Consumer Retail Group. He will be a Senior Managing Director in the Advisory practice, based in New York.
Mr. Taetle was most recently the Co-Head of the Global Consumer Retail Group at Barclays. Over his more than twenty year career, he has advised clients on a number of notable transactions including Energizer's pending acquisition of the Spectrum Battery Business, Lorillard's sale to Reynolds American, Post's acquisition of Michael Foods, Wrigley's sale to Mars, Ralcorp's sale to ConAgra, Smithfield's sale to Shanghui and Kellogg's acquisition of Pringles from Proctor and Gamble. Prior to joining Barclays, Mr. Taetle was a Managing Director at Goldman Sachs & Co.
John Weinberg, Evercore's Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, said, "Adam has a long and successful track record of advising clients on some of the most prominent situations in the Consumer Retail sector. We are thrilled that he has decided to join Evercore to lead our Consumer Retail coverage effort, as his reputation for integrity and for providing clients with exceptional advice and execution fits perfectly with our business model."
Ralph Schlosstein, Evercore's President and CEO, said, "Consumer Retail is a large and important sector, and it has been a strategic priority of ours to build a leading franchise in these industries. We are extremely pleased that Adam has chosen to join our Firm to lead this effort. His deep industry knowledge and extensive experience will enable us to continue to provide best in class service to our Consumer Retail clients on their most important strategic and financial issues."
Evercore has advised on some of the largest and most important Consumer Retail transactions including having advised Whole Foods on its merger with Amazon, the largest Retail transaction of 2017.
Mr. Taetle has a Bachelor of Business Administration from The University of Wisconsin at Madison and a Masters of Business Administration from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
About Evercore
Evercore (NYSE: EVR) is a premier global independent investment banking advisory firm. We are dedicated to helping our clients achieve superior results through trusted independent and innovative advice on matters of strategic significance to boards of directors, management teams and shareholders, including mergers and acquisitions, strategic shareholder advisory, restructurings, and capital structure. Evercore also assists clients in raising public and private capital and delivers equity research and equity sales and agency trading execution, in addition to providing wealth and investment management services to high net worth and institutional investors. Founded in 1995, the Firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices and affiliate offices in major financial centers in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. For more information, please visit www.evercore.com .
Investor Contact:
Jamie Easton
Head of Investor Relations, Evercore
+1.212.857.3100
Business Contact:
Timothy LaLonde
COO, Investment Banking, Evercore
+1.212.857.3100
Media Contact:
Dana Gorman
The Abernathy MacGregor Group, for Evercore
+1.212.371.5999
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/adam-taetle-to-join-evercore-in-april-as-a-senior-managing-director-in-the-firms-investment-banking-business-300587301.html
SOURCE Evercore