RUTHERFORD, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- VITE has completed its purchase of the historic Sullivan Vineyards in Rutherford, California. The acquisition encompasses the 26-acre estate and includes the winery, the vineyards planted primarily to Cabernet Sauvignon, the Sullivan Vineyards brand, as well as the inventory of sought after, estate produced Napa Valley wines.
Juan Pablo Torres-Padilla, CEO of VITE, states: "My partners and I are honored to build upon what the Sullivan family has created over the last five decades. Their deep commitment to the vineyards and sophisticated winemaking presents us with tremendous opportunity. The estate, located in the renowned Rutherford appellation, is particularly amazing and our inspiration for the future."
Future plans focus on continuing to craft the finest quality wines from its Napa Valley estate and further elevating the hospitality and wine club experiences. The Sullivan Estate has been a top Napa Valley destination and remains open for guests by reservation only.
Ross Sullivan, General Manager of Sullivan Vineyards, comments: "It's very rewarding to see Juan Pablo's acknowledgement of what we've accomplished over the years and that his 'life project' is coming to fruition. After more than 5 years of searching for the right property, we're thrilled by their desire to build upon our legacy."
Jeff Cole, Sullivan winemaker, states: "We are really proud of the wines we have crafted and with the performance of our extraordinary Rutherford estate vineyard. I am excited to work with Juan Pablo, who shares our commitment to the constant pursuit of excellence and continued investment in creating the finest Napa Valley wines."
To this point, Torres-Padilla adds, "I've enjoyed having dirt under my nails. My deep passion and knowledge for wine come from my time spent in Bordeaux, Burgundy and Champagne working in the cellar - cleaning tanks, doing punch downs, pump overs and sorting fruit. Working towards my certificate degree in Enology and Viticulture from U.C. Davis has also been instrumental in pursuing this life dream. I am excited to work with Jeff on the upcoming vintage, and perhaps set aside a couple barrels of Cabernet Sauvignon for us to create a new wine."
Sean Maher, Founder and Managing Director of Aspect Consumer Partners ( http://aspectconsumer.com/ ), acted as exclusive financial advisor to VITE in this transaction.
About VITE
A private investment group with long-term horizons led by Juan Pablo Torres-Padilla, VITE was created with the purpose of entering the fine wine industry in Napa Valley. The group shares common values of long term relationships, meritocracy, effort, passion and excellence. It is VITE's intention to apply their approach to give rise to a world-class producer of one of the finest Cabernets in the world and create a highly sought-after hospitality experience in the Valley. Sullivan Estate, founded by a pioneering family in the coveted Rutherford AVA, provides a perfect opportunity for Torres-Padilla to apply his extensive experience and passion for wine to achieve these goals.
About Sullivan Vineyards – www.sullivanwine.com
Situated on Galleron Road, just a half mile from Hwy 29, the Sullivan Estate has been Rutherford's Cabernet Sauvignon hideaway for over 45 years. Founded by Jim and JoAnna Sullivan in 1972, this 26-acre estate is known for producing small quantities of Bordeaux varietals in the heart of the Rutherford AVA, home to many of Napa Valley's highly coveted Cabernet Sauvignon wines. The hospitality experience combines fine wine with fine art, and offers intimate table side seating amidst the estate's plush gardens and peaceful reflection pond. Winemaker Jeff Cole is dedicated to crafting world class wines that reflect a traditional style and his mastery of today's finest winemaking techniques.
CONTACT:
Mark Feinberg
Balzac Communications & Marketing
(707) 255-7667
mfeinberg@balzac.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/historic-sullivan-vineyards-acquisition-completed-by-vite-300582743.html
SOURCE VITE