ANNAPOLIS, Md., Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Chesapeake Eye Care Company, LLC today announced the formation of One Vision Eye Partners to establish a leading medical and surgical ophthalmology platform in the Mid-Atlantic region. One Vision is seeking to acquire high-quality ophthalmology practices within its surrounding geographies and to recruit top-performing doctors to join the platform.
Led by its two founding physicians, nationally recognized eye surgeons Dr. Maria Scott and Dr. Mark Whitten, One Vision has a proven track record of delivering industry-leading patient outcomes. By adding new practices and physicians to its network, the Company will expand patients' access to high quality clinical eye care. One Vision's highly developed corporate infrastructure and top-notch clinical training programs will allow its doctors to deliver superior clinical outcomes with maximum efficiency.
Additionally, One Vision is pleased to announce the acquisition of Arlington Eye Center, a leading eye care practice based in Arlington, Virginia. Dr. Maurice Gaspar and his talented team have joined Chesapeake Eye Care and Whitten Laser Eye as part of One Vision, and will continue to provide care to the Virginia market. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
One Vision is backed by Centre Partners, a leading middle-market private equity firm with offices in New York and Los Angeles.
About One Vision Eye Partners
One Vision Eye Partners, based in Annapolis, Maryland, is a leading Mid-Atlantic ophthalmology platform, recognized for clinical excellence. The Company has built a market leading network of physicians and offers comprehensive eye care services including cataract, LASIK, cosmetic and oculoplastic surgery, glaucoma, retina, dry eye and general eye care services. Additional information is available at www.chesapeakeeyecare.com and www.whittenlasereye.com .
About Centre Partners
Founded in 1986, Centre Partners is a leading middle-market private equity firm focusing on the consumer and healthcare sectors, with offices in New York and Los Angeles. Centre has invested over $2 billion of equity capital in more than 75 transactions since its inception. Centre seeks to partner with founders and management teams to build exceptional businesses. Centre Partners provides management teams with access to its unique resources, which includes an extended network of experienced and proven operating executives. Additional information is available at www.centrepartners.com .
Contact: Michael Dunn ( MDunn@ceceye.com )
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/chesapeake-eye-care-announces-formation-of-one-vision-eye-partners-a-leading-mid-atlantic-ophthalmology-practice-management-platform-300585357.html
SOURCE Chesapeake Eye Care Company, LLC