CLEVELAND, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Compass Self Storage, a member of the Amsdell family of companies, proudly announces the acquisition of its 77 th self storage center located at 230 McDonough Parkway in McDonough, GA. J.L."Chip" Mack, III with McWhirter Realty Partners, LLC ( www.mcwrealty.com ) represented Amsdell in this transaction. This marks the twelfth Compass Self Storage location in the greater Atlanta market.
The newest Compass Self Storage ( www.compassselfstorage.com ) center in McDonough, GA, offers over 72,000 net rentable square feet. It features convenient climate controlled and drive up units with wide aisles. Physical upgrades to the property are planned, including upgrades to security and the installation of individual access control. An expansion building with additional drive up units is also planned. Compass Self Storage offers a full line of moving and packing supplies, as well as truck rental options, to make it a one-stop solution for anyone moving their home or business.
"This well maintained, single story property in an upscale and growing submarket is a great addition to our Compass footprint in Atlanta. Compass Self Storage will proudly offer our new customers top notch product and customer service to make moving and storing as pleasant as possible," stated Todd Amsdell, President.
Compass Self Storage continues to be extremely aggressive in acquiring self storage properties, with thirteen acquisitions and developments completed in 2017. They also nabbed several awards in 2017, including being ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the second consecutive year. The Inc. 5000 recognizes the nation's fastest growing private companies.
The above-mentioned acquisition was made by separate affiliates of Amsdell Group, LLC and Compass Self Storage, LLC. The Amsdell family of companies (Amsdell Companies) is headquartered in Cleveland, OH. Amsdell draws its roots from the family owned construction company founded in 1928 and has since been active in several billions of dollars worth of real estate ventures with a primary focus on self storage. As industry pioneers, Amsdell has owned and operated over 500 storage centers under various trade names in over 27 states. With over 85 years of doing business, the Amsdell team has extensive experience in property acquisition, construction and property management. Please visit www.amsdellcompanies.com and www.compassselfstorage.com for more information.
Contact: Todd Amsdell
President
tca@amsdellcompanies.com
216.458.0670
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/compass-self-storage-continues-strong-growth-with-acquisition-of-their-12th-self-storage-center-in-the-greater-atlanta-market-300582431.html
SOURCE Compass Self Storage