VANCOUVER, Wash., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- AbSci announced today the appointment of William "Bill" F. Bennett, PhD to AbSci's Scientific Advisory Board. A pioneer of the biotech industry, Dr. Bennett brings his decades of experience in downstream process development, protein purification, and regulatory affairs to the AbSci team.
"We are thrilled to have Dr. Bennett join AbSci's Scientific Advisory Board," said Sean McClain, Founder and CEO of AbSci. "His industry success will provide significant insight to our protein purification and downstream process development."
"The culture here reminds me of Genentech in the early day. It's an honor to join the team as a Scientific Advisor," said Dr. Bennett. "AbSci's technology is a quantum improvement in bacterial expression systems."
Dr. Bennett spent 18 years at Genentech in various roles, rising to Sr. Director of Regulatory Policy and leading the Genentech Biosimilars working group. He helped guide Genentech over many years through his participation on the Research Review, Product Development, Process Development Review, and Appointments and Promotions Committees. Scientifically, his work on human growth hormone and tissue-type plasminogen activator has resulted in over 50 peer-reviewed publications and 19 US patents. He led the Research and Development of Activase & TNKase, (first and second generation thrombolytic treatments for Acute Myocardial Infarction, Pulmonary Embolism, and Stroke).
Since Genentech, Dr. Bennett has held various Senior roles in the biotech industry. Dr. Bennett's work on blood platelets, neurobiology, human growth hormone and tissue-type plasminogen activator, have fueled medicines that have saved thousands of lives. Dr. Bennett has a B.A. in Chemistry from TCU and a Ph.D. in Biochemistry from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School. He was named a Distinguished Alumnus of TCU in 2010, and serves on the TCU Science & Engineering Advisory Board.
About AbSci
AbSci is a global leader in biomanufacturing technologies. The company's SoluPro TM expression platform achieves ultra-high yields of soluble and active protein products and enables ultra-high efficiency purification processes. AbSci's unique approach accelerates drug discovery timelines, increases manufacturing efficiencies, and drastically reduces costs for the biopharmaceutical industry. For more information, please visit www.absci.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/absci-appoints-william-f-bennett-phd-to-scientific-advisory-board-300579684.html
SOURCE AbSci