Austin, TX, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Associa Hill Country (AHC) promotes Lynn Harmon, AMS®, to the director of management services.
Ms. Harmon has more than 20 years of service in the community association industry with a focus on both management and development. She began her career as a community association manager that led to several industry positions including HOA coordinator, project manager, director and vice president.
Ms. Harmon has obtained her professional designation of Association Management Specialist (AMS) awarded by the Community Associations Institute (CAI) and is working towards earning the Professional Community Association Manager (PCAM) designation. She is dedicated to promoting and strengthening community associations in the Central Texas, South Texas and Coastal areas.
“Lynn holds a wealth of information and her efficient approach to management services reflects our corporate mission to serve your community with priority, courtesy and professionalism,” stated Erin Bertollini, Associa Hill Country president. “Her expertise in community management will benefit AHC by insuring our clients receive the ultimate customer experience moving forward.”
Ms. Harmon is actively involved in the San Antonio Chapter of CAI, serving as chapter president in 2014. She recently rejoined the board of directors and is currently serving as the secretary. She continues to serve on the Regional San Antonio Advisory Council for Texas Community Association Advocates (TCAA), which is the voice for community associations and homeowners on legislative and regulatory matters.
With more than 180 branch offices across North America, Associa delivers unsurpassed management and lifestyle services to nearly five million residents worldwide. Our 10,000+ team members lead the industry with unrivaled education, expertise and trailblazing innovation. For more than 40 years, Associa has provided solutions designed to help communities achieve their vision. To learn more, visit www.associaonline.com .
Stay Connected:
Like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/associa
Subscribe to the Blog: https://hub.associaonline.com/
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/associa
Join us on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/associa
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4dca0323-95b7-4281-87b5-486a3c832732
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/82409239-2529-4131-a8ae-e33e28821c0c
Ashley S Cantwell Associa 214-272-4107 acantwell@associaonline.com
Source: Associa