SAN MATEO, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Slice Intelligence , the leading e-commerce and analytics firm with a panel of over 5 million online shoppers, today announced it has hired Bob Ivins as General Manager and Senior Vice President of Data Products and Market Research.
Ivins has been at the forefront of digital media measurement since its inception and is widely recognized as an industry innovator. A proven entrepreneur and company builder, Ivins led successful businesses built on behavioral data while in senior roles at comScore, Comcast, Yahoo! and ACNielsen.
" Slice is expanding its client roster and dataset at a remarkable pace and we are proud to have Bob on our team to support and lead those efforts," said Harpinder Singh, CEO and co-founder for Slice. "His entrepreneurial mindset, industry expertise, and strong business acumen will help keep Slice at the edge of innovation."
Prior to joining Slice Intelligence, Ivins held executive roles building businesses on behavioral data. While at comScore, he led the opening of comScore's non-US business from London and later oversaw the company's integration of Rentrak. Prior to comScore, Ivins served as Chief Data Officer at Mindshare, and was a vice president at Comcast Business Intelligence Group, where his remit included developing ROI analytics for the Comcast Media 360 ad sales unit. He has also held leadership positions for Yahoo! Europe, Media Matrix, I/PRO, AC Nielsen, and DRI.
"The internet has changed how we communicate, how we are entertained, and is changing how we shop," said Ivins. "With e-commerce spending continuing to grow, it is critical for retailers and marketers to know who is buying what, where, when and how. Slice is delivering this insight to a growing list of marquee clients. I am thrilled to be working with this team to help our clients tap the full potential of the online opportunity."
About Slice Intelligence
Founded in 2010, Slice Intelligence is the arbiter of e-commerce measurement. Our data and research insights are drawn from over 5 million online shoppers, the largest and most representative online shopper panel. Our proprietary methodology enables Slice Intelligence to parse online purchase records from e-receipts in near real-time. Based in San Mateo, CA, Slice is the most widely-cited media source on e-commerce, and is an independent, wholly-owned subsidiary of Rakuten.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/slice-intelligence-hires-top-digital-media-measurement-innovator-to-expand-client-roster-and-dataset-300586533.html
SOURCE Slice Intelligence