NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CIFC LLC (“CIFC”), a leading credit manager specializing in U.S. corporate and structured credit strategies, today announced that Jay Huang has joined the firm as a Managing Director, Senior Portfolio Manager and Head of Structured Products Investments. In this role, Mr. Huang will oversee CIFC’s structured products investments business. This appointment is a key strategic move that will further bolster the firm’s investment expertise and market presence in the structured products space. Previously, Mr. Huang served as Managing Director and Global Head of CLO, CDO and Distressed SIV Trading for Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., a business he built to become the top revenue-generating business within the firm’s Structured Credit Division. Mr. Huang will be based in New York and will report to CIFC’s Co-CEOs Oliver Wriedt and Steve Vaccaro.
“Jay is a highly respected, career-long structured credit investor with a track record of exceptional performance through all market cycles,” said Oliver Wriedt, Co-CEO of CIFC. “His significant structured credit expertise, combined with his experience in applying data science concepts and creating cutting-edge trading technology, will add tremendous value to CIFC’s investment capabilities as we continue to scale and strengthen our product offerings for our global clients.”
“I am excited to join CIFC, a renowned investor in structured products,” added Mr. Huang. “With a deep bench of seasoned credit professionals and a robust credit analytics infrastructure, CIFC has a powerful platform for LP investors to capitalize on the inefficiencies of the structured products market while simultaneously benefitting from the expertise of a top-tier credit manager. The successes of 2017, a landmark year for CIFC in CLO issuance, are the direct results of the firm’s deep capital markets network and its dedication to structured products, both of which will be instrumental in the further expansion of CIFC’s structured credit investments business.”
Mr. Huang has more than fifteen years of experience trading structured products and building market-leading teams at Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. During his tenure, he helped launch Citigroup’s CLO and CDO trading business in 2002, created the first distressed SIV trading business on Wall Street in 2008, and established the first data science team within Citigroup credit markets in 2015. Under his leadership as Global Head of Trading, Greenwich Survey and Coalition, the bellwether surveys in the securities market, frequently ranked his CLO and CDO businesses #1 across many major categories, including profitability and market presence. He began his career on Salomon Smith Barney’s CDO structuring desk in 2000. Mr. Huang graduated from Carnegie Mellon University with college honors in 2000 with a Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics and Statistics and a minor in Computer Science.
About CIFC
Founded in 2005, CIFC is a credit manager with $16 billion of assets under management specializing in U.S. corporate and structured credit strategies. Headquartered in New York, CIFC is a SEC registered investment adviser. Serving institutional investors globally, CIFC is one of the largest managers of senior secured corporate credit. For more information, please visit CIFC’s website at www.cifc.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005347/en/
Media
Amanda Klein, 212-257-4170
Gasthalter & Co.
Source: CIFC LLC