MENLO PARK, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- NuMedii, Inc. today announced the formation of an Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) Advisory Board consisting of the world's leading experts in interstitial lung disease: Naftali Kaminski, MD; David A. Schwartz, MD; Kevin Brown, MD; Toby Maher, MD, PhD; Gisli Jenkins, MD, PhD; Zea Borok, MD; and, Paul Wolters, MD. The newly formed Board of Advisors will provide deep scientific and clinical expertise to the company as it discovers and advances new treatments for IPF based on NuMedii's Artificial Intelligence for Drug Discovery (AIDD) technology. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a rare chronic progressive and usually fatal interstitial lung disease for which the origin is unknown and there remains no effective treatment.
"We are thrilled to assemble such a distinguished group of experts in IPF on our Advisory Board," said Gini Deshpande, Ph.D., chief executive officer, NuMedii, Inc. "The formation of our IPF Advisory Board and our achievement in building our proprietary knowledge base for IPF ahead of schedule reflects our steadfast commitment to this rare disease. We thank all our IPF Advisors for their dedication, as their unparalleled insights and experiences will be invaluable to NuMedii as we continue to further advance our work in IPF, a horrible lung disease for which there remains significant unmet medical need."
NuMedii's AIDD technology employs deep learnings of human biology consisting of insights gained from literature and from hundreds of millions of molecular, pharmacological and clinical data points that the company has curated and harmonized. The company couples these data with proprietary machine learning and network-based algorithms to discover and advance precise, effective new drug candidates, as well as biomarkers predictive of efficacy for subsets of patients, in a broad spectrum of therapeutic areas including rare diseases like IPF. NuMedii recently announced the formation of a development collaboration with Three Lakes Partners to discover and advance new treatments for IPF based on NuMedii's AIDD technology.
NuMedii's IPF Advisory Board includes the following members with unparalleled expertise in pulmonary medicine and immunology spanning the breadth and scope from the lab to the clinic:
Naftali Kaminski, MD – Boehringer-Ingelheim Professor of Internal Medicine and Chief of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Yale School of Medicine David A. Schwartz, MD – Professor of Medicine and Immunology, Robert W. Schrier Chair of Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado School of Medicine Kevin Brown, MD – Vice Chair, Department of Medicine Clinical Affairs, National Jewish Health, Denver; Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado, Denver School of Medicine Toby Maher, MD, PhD – British Lung Foundation Chair in Respiratory Research and National Institute for Health Research Clinician Scientist; Professor of Interstitial Lung Disease and head of the Fibrosis Research Group, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, London; Honorary Consultant Respiratory Physician, Interstitial Lung Disease Unit, Royal Brompton Hospital Gisli Jenkins, MD, PhD – Professor of Experimental Medicine, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, University of Nottingham School of Medicine, UK Zea Borok, MD – Professor of Medicine, Ralph Edgington Chair in Medicine, Chief, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California Paul Wolters, MD – Professor of Medicine, University of San Francisco School of Medicine
About NuMedii, Inc.
NuMedii, Inc., has been pioneering the use of Big Data, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and systems biology since 2010 to accelerate the discovery of precision therapies to address high unmet medical needs. As a next generation biopharma company, NuMedii has built a powerful technology, AIDD (Artificial Intelligence for Drug Discovery), originally developed at Stanford University, that harnesses Big Data and AI to rapidly discover connections between drugs and diseases at a systems level. NuMedii has active R&D collaborations with several global pharmaceutical and biotech companies and patient-centric organizations to create pipeline and new products in multiple therapeutic areas including inflammation, oncology and rare diseases. Headquartered in Menlo Park, California, NuMedii's investors include Claremont Creek Ventures and Lightspeed Venture Partners. For more information, please visit www.numedii.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/worlds-leading-lung-disease-experts-join-numediis-idiopathic-pulmonary-fibrosis-advisory-board-300578438.html
SOURCE NuMedii, Inc.