INDIANAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Athletic retailer The Finish Line, Inc. (NASDAQ: FINL) announced today that its board of directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.115 per share of outstanding common stock. This represents a $0.005 per share or 5% increase over the previous dividend paid by the company. The quarterly cash dividend will be payable on March 19, 2018 to shareholders of record as of March 2, 2018.
“This dividend increase demonstrates our continued commitment to deliver value to our shareholders over the long-term through our growth strategies and disciplined expense management,” said Sam Sato, Chief Executive Officer of Finish Line.
About The Finish Line, Inc.
The Finish Line, Inc. is a premium retailer that carries the latest and greatest shoes, apparel, and accessories. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Finish Line runs approximately 950 branded locations in U.S. malls and shops inside Macy’s department stores. Finish Line employs more than 14,000 associates who connect customers to sneaker culture through style and sport. Shop online at www.finishline.com or get access to everything on the Finish Line app. Also keep track of what’s fresh by following Finish Line on Instagram , Snapchat, and Twitter .
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes statements that are or may be considered “forward-looking” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “foresee,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “estimates,” “outlook,” “potential,” “optimistic,” “confidence,” “continue,” “evolve,” “expand,” “growth,” or words and phrases of similar meaning. Statements that describe objectives, plans, or goals also are forward-looking statements.
All of these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, management assumptions, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the relevant forward-looking statements. The principal risk factors that could cause actual performance and future actions to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor); the availability and timely receipt of products; the ability to timely fulfill and ship products to customers; fluctuations in oil prices causing changes in gasoline and energy prices, resulting in changes in consumer spending as well as increases in utility, freight, and product costs; product demand and market acceptance risks; deterioration of macroeconomic and business conditions; the inability to locate and obtain or retain acceptable lease terms for the company’s stores; the effect of competitive products and pricing; loss of key employees; execution of strategic growth initiatives (including actual and potential mergers and acquisitions and other components of the company’s capital allocation strategy); cybersecurity risks, including breach of customer data; the potential impact of legal or regulatory changes, including the potential impact of tax reform legislation; a major failure of technology and information systems; and the other risks detailed in the company’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this report and Finish Line undertakes no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006124/en/
Media Contact:
Dianna L. Boyce, 317-613-6577
Corporate Communications
or
Investor Contact:
Ed Wilhelm, 317-613-6914
Chief Financial Officer
Source: The Finish Line, Inc.