ARVADA, Colo., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Minuteman Press International, the world's largest and #1 rated marketing and printing franchise by Entrepreneur, is proud to welcome the new full-service Minuteman Press center in Arvada, Colorado to its growing franchise family. The Arvada marketing and printing franchise was successfully converted from an independent print shop to Minuteman Press as part of Minuteman Press International's ongoing conversion program .
Dwayne Cameron (3rd from left) owns the newly converted Minuteman Press printing franchise in Arvada, Colorado.
"Our conversion program enables independent printers who are looking to sell a printing business to find a reputable and trusted partner in Minuteman Press International," says Bob Titus, Minuteman Press International President and CEO. He adds, "As printing industry leaders for over 40 years, we have the experience to provide a full valuation of independent print businesses as well as provide guidance and expertise in selling their business. In addition, we have the unique ability to attract a wider pool of qualified buyers for sellers because we provide full training and ongoing local support to all of our franchisees. This means that buyers do not have to have printing industry experience since we will be there for them every step of the way."
Arvada, Colorado – Meet Dwayne Cameron
Dwayne Cameron owns his new Minuteman Press printing franchise located at 5840 Olde Wadsworth Blvd., Arvada, CO 80003. Prior to becoming a business owner, Dwayne had several professional experiences in sales across various industries that led him to Minuteman Press. Dwayne explains, "After graduating college in the mid-1990s, I went to work for Office Depot as a business-to-business sales representative. I worked for Office Depot for about 5 years and spent another 4 years in the industry before I was asked manage a small family-owned commercial plumbing business. I helped grow that business over the course of 3-4 years, and then I went to work as a manufacturer's representative in the office furniture industry. I specifically sold furniture to the Federal Government under a government contract. My sales territory covered four states in which I traveled about 50% of the time. The contract was re-negotiated and my position was eliminated in late 2016."
Why Minuteman Press? Dwayne answers, "Also in late 2016, the Franchise Business Show was in Denver, so knowing I would be going through a change I decided I would look into it. My attitude was wide open as I walked through the show. Seeing many restaurant and bar franchises, I quickly knew that the food industry was not something I was familiar with and not the direction I wanted to go. Minuteman Press caught my eye because the workday was similar to my work experience in both selling and managing a small business."
Dwayne also liked Minuteman Press because of their focus on providing outstanding customer service in addition to their longevity in franchising as well as their strong brand identity. He explains, "I was tired of working for 'The Man.' Most of the companies I had worked for did not seem to want to take care of their customers and gave poor customer service that made me feel disheartened about going back to represent another company like that. Minuteman Press specifically noted that customer service and sending out a quality product was a key to being successful which was something I truly believe in. I spoke with many different 'business-to-business' concepts, but overall the strength of Minuteman Press internationally, with the overall number of stores reaching close to 1000 and being a franchisor for over 40 years was the main reason I chose Minuteman Press."
For more information on Minuteman Press in Arvada, Colorado, contact Dwayne and his team at (303) 940-9779 or visit their website: http://arvada-co.minutemanpress.com
"I am thrilled to welcome Dwayne Cameron as a new Minuteman Press franchise owner," says Jack Panzer, Minuteman Press International Regional Vice President for the Colorado region. He continues, "I am excited to help and support Dwayne as he begins this new and exciting chapter."
For more information on how to sell a printing business through Minuteman Press International's conversion program, call 1-800-645-3006 or click here to learn more .
About Minuteman Press International
Minuteman Press International is the number one rated business marketing and printing franchise that offers world class training and unparalleled ongoing local support. Started in 1973 by Roy Titus and his son Bob, Minuteman Press began franchising in 1975 and has grown to nearly 1,000 business service franchise locations worldwide including the U.S., Australia, Canada, South Africa, and the United Kingdom. Minuteman Press is ranked #1 in category by Entrepreneur 26 times and 15 years in a row, including 2018. Franchise Business Review has also named Minuteman Press International to its 2017 Top Franchises and 2017 Top B2B Franchises lists thanks to positive reviews from our owners .
At Minuteman Press, we are the modern printing industry, providing high quality products and services that meet the needs of today's business professionals and go way beyond ink on paper. Today, our centers offer innovative branding solutions and produce custom designs, promotional products, branded apparel, direct mail marketing, large format printing (banners and posters), signs and graphics, and much more. Prior experience is not necessary to own and operate a successful Minuteman Press franchise.
To learn about Minuteman Press franchise opportunities and access over 80 testimonials and Minuteman Press franchise reviews, visit www.minutemanpressfranchise.com or call 1-800-645-3006 for more information.
Contact:
Minuteman Press International
Franchise Opportunities, 1-800-645-3006
www.minutemanpressfranchise.com
or
Media Inquiries:
Chris Biscuiti, 631-249-1370, ext. 249
cbiscuiti@mpihq.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/d22f4480-2999-43a1-930b-ad9363d3aabc
Source:Minuteman Press International