BILLERICA, Mass., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- NTP Software®, the worldwide leader in Secure File Data Management, today announced the appointment of Michael Brooks to the position of Vice President of Sales and Client Success.
Michael is a seasoned industry veteran with an impressive track record of achievement, bringing disruptive technology and ideas to market at companies such as Dell EMC and IBM. Throughout his career, he has been recognized with top honors, including Dell EMC's prestigious President's Award. "Mike has a long and successful history of delivering consistent high sales transaction volume and revenue results," said Larry Butera, President and Chief Operating Officer of NTP Software. "We are thrilled to add Mike to our rapidly expanding team."
NTP Software products provide improved security and efficiency with groundbreaking options to control access to file data, support corporate governance and regulatory compliance, and respond quickly to litigation and audits. "There is a huge gap in the market for a solution set like NTP's. Companies are looking for easy and cost-effective ways to get file data to Object Storage and the Cloud; as well as maintaining the security and control of each file," said Michael. "I am excited to help evangelize this message and continue to help clients reduce costs."
Michael's passion for helping people is also seen in his personal life. He remains active with the Greg Hill Foundation, where he serves on its Board of Directors. With the help of thousands of generous individuals in New England, the Foundation raises money that helps respond to the immediate needs of families that have been struck by tragedy.
About NTP Software
Founded in 1994, NTP Software is the worldwide leader in the management and control of unstructured data. Every day, more than 20 million users work with storage resources managed by NTP Software's technology. NTP Software gives organizations control of their file data by providing the solutions needed to understand, manage, move, and secure file data completely. NTP Software delivers a single, cross-platform solution across a customer's entire file data storage environment: from managing individual files and users to an entire global enterprise with hundreds of systems and dozens of sites. For more information please see http://www.ntpsoftware.com .
Darrin Stivala
VP of Operations
NTP Software
(603) 622-4400
darrin@ntpsoftware.com
This release was issued through WebWire®. For more information, visit http://www.webwire.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ntp-software-announces-executive-team-expansion-300588128.html
SOURCE NTP Software