PITTSBURGH, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Michael Baker International , a global leader in engineering, planning and consulting services, today announced that two members of the firm's Board of Directors, General (Ret.) Anthony C. Zinni and Admiral (Ret.) James G. Stavridis, were honored for their commitment to driving an integrated approach to foreign policy by the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (USGLC) at the 2017 Tribute Dinner.
Gen. Zinni, U.S. Marine Corps, and Adm. Stavridis, U.S. Navy, serve as the co-chairs of the USGLC National Security Advisory Council (NSAC). The NSAC includes more than 180 retired three- and four-star generals and admirals, and supports advancing America's national security by strengthening all the tools of national security—development and diplomacy—along with strong defense. General Zinni and Admiral Stavridis lead the NSAC membership of active and trusted voices who engage with Congress, the media, and state and community leaders on the need for a "smart power" approach to combat today's global threats with adequate resources for the International Affairs Budget.
The USGLC works in Washington, D.C. and across the country to strengthen America's civilian-led tools and defense. As part of the coalition, the USGLC brings together more than 500 businesses and non-profits from across the country to collaborate on a unified message that investment in America's tools of development and diplomacy is the smart thing to do.
Gen. Zinni and Adm. Stavridis provide strategic leadership and guidance as directors at Michael Baker International. With more than 70 years of combined service, they offer invaluable insight to help drive the direction of Michael Baker's efforts in support of the U.S. Government. For more than 70 years, Michael Baker has proudly provided world-class engineering solutions to help meet the complex challenges of the U.S. Government and Armed Forces both domestically and abroad.
About Michael Baker International
Michael Baker International is a leading provider of engineering and consulting services, including design, planning, architectural, environmental, construction and program management. The company provides its comprehensive range of services and solutions to support U.S. federal, state and municipal governments, foreign allied governments, and a wide range of commercial clients. Michael Baker is committed to delivering a standard of excellence that fosters a culture of innovation, collaboration and technological advancement to help solve challenges for clients and the company's more than 3,000 employees in nearly 100 locations across the United States. To learn more, visit www.mbakerintl.com .
Contact:
Justin Falce
justin.falce@mbakerintl.com
(866) 293-4609
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/michael-baker-international-board-of-directors-members-gen-ret-anthony-c-zinni-and-adm-ret-james-g-stavridis-honored-by-the-us-global-leadership-coalition-300581550.html
SOURCE Michael Baker International