SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Breker Verification Systems , the leading provider of Portable Stimulus, today named Dave Kelf to the newly created role of chief marketing executive.
Kelf, who most recently served as of vice president of worldwide marketing solutions at formal verification provider OneSpin Solutions, is responsible for all aspects of Breker’s marketing activities, strategic programs and channel management. He reports to Adnan Hamid, Breker’s chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder.
“No other marketing executive in the semiconductor industry has Dave’s unique experience and background that perfectly meshes with our needs,” says Hamid. “Many of the recent verification initiatives with solid messaging and positioning can be attributed to Dave. We are delighted he agreed to join Breker.”
Previously, Kelf was president and CEO of Sigmatix, Inc. He worked in sales and marketing at Cadence Design Systems, and was responsible for the Verilog and VHDL verification product lines. As vice president of marketing at Co-Design Automation and then Synopsys, Kelf oversaw the successful introduction and growth of the SystemVerilog language, before running marketing for Novas Software, noted for the Verdi product line, which became Springsoft and is now part of Synopsys.
Kelf holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electronic Computer Systems from the University of Salford and a Master of Science degree in Microelectronics from Brunel University, both in the U.K., and an MBA from Boston University.
“Portable Stimulus driven by Breker represents a huge leap forward in semiconductor verification, the first realization of a true, synthesizable, executable specification,” remarks Kelf. “Breker is in a unique position to significantly improve the way we do verification, and I am excited to make this a reality.”
Breker first introduced a graph-based approach to test case generation in 2008 now known as Portable Stimulus, a standard means of specifying verification intent and behaviors reusable across target platforms. It gives chip design verification groups true Verification GPS ( G raph-based, P ortable, S hareable) with its Portable Stimulus solutions. Through the use of a G raph-based intent specification in an industry standard language, TrekSoC™ offers proven P ortability across verification platforms, scaling from IP to SoC for vertical reuse and SoC to post-silicon for horizontal reuse. It is S hareable across global diverse teams, project revisions and communication channels.
TrekSoC is in use at large and mid-sized semiconductor companies worldwide on a variety of projects, including universal verification methodology (UVM) sequence generation and software-driven test generation from easy-to-author, graph-based representations and hardware/software scenario generation for emulation and system tests. Applications range from servers, networking, graphics processing units (GPUs) and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) to mobile and base stations for cellular wireless.
Breker is a founding member and an active participant of the Accellera Portable Stimulus Working Group (PSWG) and contributed a working C++ language representation for standardization efforts.
About Breker Verification Systems
Breker Verification Systems is the leading provider of Portable Stimulus solutions, a standard means to specify verification intent and behaviors reusable across target platforms, and the first company to introduce graph-based verification. Its Portable Stimulus suite of tools is G raph-based to make complex scenarios comprehensible, P ortable, eliminating test redundancy across process, and S hareable to foster communication and reuse giving chip design verification groups true Verification GPS . Breker is privately held.
Engage with Breker at:
Website: www.brekersystems.com
Twitter: @BrekerSystems
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company-beta/1010418
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/BrekerSystems/
TrekSoC, TrekSoC-Si, TrekBox and SoC Scenario Modeling are registered trademark of Breker Verification Systems. Breker Verification Systems acknowledges trademarks or registered trademarks of other organizations for their respective products.
﻿For more information, contact:
Nanette Collins
Public Relations for Breker Verification Systems
(617) 437-1822
nanette@nvc.com
Source: Breker Verification Systems