* European shares inch lower * Utilities drop after Suez warning * Tech hit by fresh Apple woes * Novartis beats analyst forecasts Jan 24 (Reuters) - Welcome to the home for real time coverage of European equity markets brought to you by Reuters stocks reporters and anchored today by Danilo Masoni. Reach him on Messenger to share your thoughts on market moves: danilo.masoni.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net EUROPEAN OPEN: TECH AND UTILITIES HIT STOXX 600 (0832 GMT) European shares are trading slightly in the red in early trading with utilities leading fallers after a profit warning from Suez, itself down 15 percent. Tech stocks were also under pressure after JP Morgan cut its rating for Apple supplier AMS to neutral, pointing to iPhone X order weakness. A strong update from Novartis however lifted healthcare stocks, providing support to the broader market and helping the Swiss index SMI stand out as the only gainer among major European benchmarks. Among single stocks, Maersk was the second biggest gainer on the STOXX after Novartis. Maersk was supported by reports it is seeking a partner for its drilling unit , while a trader also cited an upgrade to buy at SEB Equities. (Danilo Masoni) WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE EUROPE OPENS (0746) European shares are seen opening flat to slightly lower ahead of the release of PMI data later today. Some strong corporate updates however could provide support, helping the regional STOXX 600 benchmark index stay close to its highest levels since August 2015. Futures were last trading between flat and a fall of 0.1 percent, reversing opening gains. The pharma sector, recently penalized by a rotation into cyclicals, could be on the watchlist after Swiss heavyweight Novartis posted better-than-expected core net income in the fourth quarter and forecast 2018 operating profit would grow faster than sales as revenue from drugs accelerates. The retail sector could find support after Dutch-Belgian supermarket Ahold Delhaize reported fourth-quarter sales growth at at the high end of market expectations, while France's Carrefour saw upgrades from SocGen, Bernstein and HSBC. The overnight headlines: Novartis beats forecasts, sees new drugs fuelling 2018 growth Ahold Delhaize Q4 sales lifted by strong Dutch performance MEDIA-Maersk in talks with possible Norwegian partners for drilling unit UK pub firm JD Wetherspoon posts strong Christmas sales Italian local utilities approve six-way merger UK's Purplebricks taps into U.S. East Coast with New York launch Barry Callebaut expects chocolate recovery to continue Estate agent Countrywide CEO Alison Platt resigns Average UK motor insurance premiums paid in 2017 highest since 2012 Tesco poaches Ulster Bank CEO Mallon for its financial services arm -Sky News Anglo American expects to get licenses to expand in Brazil Wirecard rejects report on India business that hit stock Publicis says was the victim of anonymous destabilisation attempt MEDIA-RBS to sell London headquarters - The Telegraph bit.ly/2E3CTy7 BMW and Daimler close to merging car-sharing units - executive BRIEF-Sage posts 6 pct Q1 revenue growth, in line with expectations BRIEF-Fresnillo Says Set To Increase Throughput And Silver Ore Grades (Danilo Masoni and Tom Pfeiffer) EUROPEAN STOCK FUTURES EDGE UP (0703 GMT) European shares are expected to open just marginally higher with stock index futures moving between flat and a gain of 0.1 percent. Some strong corporate updates including from drugmaker Novartis, which we mentioned in our previous post, and Dutch-Belgian supermarket Ahold Delhaize could provide support, while on the macro front PMI data will grab the attention ahead of tomorrow's European Central Bank meeting. And Talking about the ECB here is a graphic piece from Reuters with five questions for Mario Draghi. Here is your futures snapshot: (Danilo Masoni) PHARMA IN FOCUS AFTER NOVARTIS BEAT (0632 GMT) The healthcare sector could be one to watch this morning after Swiss-based heavyweight Novartis posted better than expected results. European healthcare stocks have underperformed the broader market so far this year as expectations of stronger economic growth caused a switch from defensives into cyclicals. The Swiss drugmaker forecast 2018 operating profit would grow faster than sales as revenue from drugs including its latest blockbuster Cosentyx accelerates and the company exits a period when patent losses dented results. Will Novartis figures help the sector catch up today? (Danilo Masoni)