Company announcement - No. 3/2018
Zealand Pharma strengthens its Management by appointing Ivan Møller as SVP, Technical Development & Operations
Copenhagen, Denmark, January 19, 2018 - Zealand Pharma A/S ("Zealand") announces the appointment of Ivan Møller to a new position as Senior Vice President, Technical Development & Operations. Ivan Møller is joining Zealand as a new member of Management with effect from March 1, 2018.
Ivan Møller brings extensive experience from numerous senior management positions in the international pharmaceutical industry, including roles at Novartis in both generics and pharmaceutical manufacturing, as well as strategy, quality assurance, contract manufacturing and supply chain leadership in Germany, the U.S. and Switzerland. Prior to joining Novartis, Ivan Møller was project leader at The Boston Consulting Group in New York, NY where he led client engagements in the pharmaceutical R&D and manufacturing areas. He started his career at PolyPeptide Laboratories where he was Head of Production site.
Ivan Møller is a dual American / Danish citizen. He holds a Master of Science in Chemical Engineering from the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and a Master of Business Administration from Harvard Business School.
Britt Meelby Jensen, President and Chief Executive Officer at Zealand, comments: "I am pleased to welcome Ivan Møller to Zealand to lead Technical Development & Operations. He has a strong track record as well as extensive U.S. and European experience. For our business, it is a new and important role, created as a natural consequence of our growing late stage pipeline and our ambition to bring our own medicines to market within specialty diseases. I am convinced that Ivan is well suited to lead this important area, contributing to the success of Zealand."
Ivan Møller, Senior Vice President, Technical Development & Operations at Zealand, comments: "I am delighted to join Zealand Pharma at this exciting time. As the pipeline progresses towards commercialization, I look forward to further building out the company's launch readiness and commercial manufacturing capabilities. I am confident in Zealand's ability to become an integrated biotech company as pipeline and organization now move into this next stage."
For further information, please contact:
Britt Meelby Jensen , President and CEO
Tel.: +45 51 67 61 28, e-mail: bmj@zealandpharma.com
Mats Blom , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Tel.: +45 31 53 79 73, e-mail: mabl@zealandpharma.com
About Zealand Pharma A/S
Zealand Pharma A/S (Nasdaq Copenhagen and New York: ZEAL) ("Zealand") is a biotechnology company focused on the discovery, design and development of innovative peptide-based medicines. Zealand has a portfolio of medicines and product candidates under license collaborations with Sanofi and Boehringer Ingelheim, and a pipeline of internal product candidates focusing on specialty gastrointestinal and metabolic diseases.
Zealand is based in Copenhagen (Glostrup), Denmark. For further information about the Company's business and activities, please visit www.zealandpharma.com or follow Zealand on LinkedIn or Twitter @ZealandPharma.
Attachments:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/80a27030-d366-4b07-a874-ac3efdf86572
Source: Zealand Pharma A/S