Can your financial plan stand the test of time? It may need to last longer than you think.
Since 1950, life expectancies at birth have ticked upward at a rate of roughly two years per decade, from an average 68.2 for a newborn in 1950 to 76.8 for one in 2000, according to the Centers for Disease Control. But those averages can paint a misleading picture: They factor in people who will die at younger ages, which drags down the number.
In contrast, the Social Security Administration's life expectancy calculator estimates that, on average, a man turning age 65 today can expect to live until age 84.3; a woman, to age 86.6.
"And those are just averages," the SSA notes. "About one out of every four 65-year-olds today will live past age 90, and one out of 10 will live past age 95."
Celebrating such milestone birthdays for older relatives spurred Holly Wolf, 56, and her husband, Gary, 60, to reassess their retirement plans.
The Fleetwood, Pennsylvania, couple can count on one hand the number of relatives in the preceding two generations who have passed away younger than 80. Many of the rest of the couple's relatives lived into their high 80s or 90s. Holly's father is now 92, and Gary has a great-aunt who is still very active at age 99.
"We saw, we've got a lot of people who are living long," said Holly Wolf. "We can't use the number of living to 80, because they've all outstripped that."
More consumers should be taking that kind of notice.
People tend to underestimate how long they might live: 43 percent of retirees and 38 percent of pre-retirees fell short by at least five years when asked to gauge the average life expectancy for someone of their age and gender, according to a 2011 survey from the Society of Actuaries.
The SOA surveyed 800 retirees and 800 pre-retirees, ranging in age from 45 to 80.
Asked about their own life expectancy, only 31 percent of retirees estimated they would live two or more years beyond the average for someone their age.
That "longevity bonus" is both benefit and challenge. According to surveys, outliving your savings in retirement is a significant fear and even a fate worse than death. But it's an issue people aren't sure how to plan around .
Only one third of consumers know how long their assets would last in retirement — it's the risk they were least prepared for, according to a 2017 report from SOA and two other actuarial associations. Half had some plan for living longer than expected, while 55 percent had planned for chronic health problems in retirement.
(Longevity doesn't always mean extra healthy years, and the latest estimates from Fidelity anticipate even a healthy couple could spend $275,000 on routine care in retirement.)
show chapters This is how long $1 million will last in retirement 9:27 AM ET Wed, 6 Sept 2017 | 01:20 Here's how to rise to the challenge:
Estimating longevity If nothing is certain but death and taxes, the timing of the latter at least is much easier to anticipate. Getting a sense of where your life expectancy might fall compared to the average is largely guesswork — and there's no guarantee.
Many predictors for longevity and risk factors for health problems are under your control; others aren't, said Jeanne Y. Wei, a medical doctor and the executive director of the Donald W. Reynolds Institute on Aging at University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS).
"The best thing would have been if we could have chosen our parents wisely," she said, with relatives living with good health into their 100s.
Family histories of cardiovascular problems, cancer, diabetes and dementia are the big four risk factors to monitor, said Wei, who is also chairman of the department of geriatrics at UAMS.
And it's worth noting the prevalence of long-lived relatives. But consumers should also keep in mind that conditions contributing to an older relative's early death are likely to be more treatable now, or avoidable if we make different choices (say, not smoking or by being more active).
"If either of your parents lived to 75, your chances of making it to 95 are excellent," said, Wei, who cautioned: "That's a predictor. It doesn't have to be true."
Your own health habits — especially in terms of diet, weight, activity (or lack thereof) — and choices around smoking, drinking and drug use, are arguably even more important predictors, said certified financial planner Carolyn McClanahan, who is also a medical doctor. She is a co-founder of Whealthcare Planning , which helps people plan for the finances of aging.
"If you're a big partier, a smoker and you're overweight, that's not going to help you," said McClanahan, who is also director of financial planning for Life Planning Partners in Jacksonville, Florida.
There is some opportunity to turn around your habits in middle age. And researchers have found that conscientiousness is the personality trait that is the most strongly associated with longevity, said Wei.
"If we own our own health, we're going to do much better," she said. "We make so many decisions each day. We can choose to make it healthy, or not."
For a quick gut check, there are plenty of longevity calculators like the Actuaries Longevity Illustrator (from the SOA and the American Academy of Actuaries) and Living to 100 , that aim to gauge the likelihood of you reaching certain ages and provide financial and health recommendations. Those can provide a launching point for further conversations with your doctors and financial advisor.
Creating a plan to span the years Get a trusted team in place
Finding the right financial advisor , accountant and attorney to work with on your financial documents and plan serves you well throughout your life — and especially as you age. Not only can they help you navigate complex retirement decisions like when to claim Social Security and what's an appropriate rate to tap resources, but they can also be a key resource in heading off the growing problems of elder fraud and elder financial abuse .
Elder financial fraud cases Issue Percentage of cases reported Third-party abuse/exploitation 27% Account distributions 26% Family member, trustee or power of attorney taking advantage 23% Diminished capacity 12% Combined diminished capacity and third-party abuse 12% Fraud 6.30% Elder exploitation 5.70% Friend, housekeeper or caretaker taking advantage Excessive withdrawals SOURCE: North American Securities Administrators Association Rethink "retirement"
"I've been on this agenda for a number of years now, that we need to quit talking about retirement planning and start talking about planning for when you can no longer work," McClanahan said. "Retirement was not intended to last for 30 or 40 years."
One of the best things someone anticipating longevity can do is to rethink at what age they leave the workforce, she said.
"Every year you work is more financial security," McClanahan said.
Staying in the workforce longer triggers numerous financial advantages. It lets you keep generating income (reducing or eliminating the need to pull from savings), and offers more opportunities to add to retirement savings, she said.
Working longer can also help you