SEATTLE, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nohla Therapeutics Inc. (Nohla), a leading cell therapy company that provides a short-term bridge to long-term health for patients with critical diseases, today announced the appointment of James (Jim) Johnson as the company’s new Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
“I am excited to welcome Jim Johnson to the Nohla leadership team,” said Katie Fanning, President and CEO of Nohla. “Jim’s proven track record of successfully building and financing private and public biopharmaceutical companies will be invaluable to Nohla’s success as we continue to advance the development of our lead clinical programs.”
Mr. Johnson joins Nohla after serving for five years as the CFO of NanoString Technologies, a publicly-held provider of life science tools for translational research and molecular diagnostics. During his tenure as CFO at NanoString, Mr. Johnson oversaw strategic and corporate finance activities from private stage through the company’s initial public offering and additional rounds of financing, marking the third IPO in his career as a CFO.
Prior to joining NanoString, Mr. Johnson served as Chief Financial Officer of Relypsa, Inc., a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. Prior to Relypsa, Mr. Johnson served for nearly 10 years as CFO of ZymoGenetics, Inc., until the company was acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb in October 2010. Previously, he served for seven years as CFO of Targeted Genetics Corporation (now AmpliPhi) and as Vice President of Finance at Immunex Corporation during its evolution from product development to commercial operations. Mr. Johnson received a B.A. in Business Administration from the University of Washington.
“I am thrilled to join Nohla and help advance the development of its novel cell therapy products to address a significant unmet medical need,” said Jim Johnson. “Nohla’s strong financial backing from leading investors, innovative technology platform, and experienced and committed management team has the company well-positioned for success, and I am excited about the opportunity that lies ahead.”
About Nohla
Nohla Therapeutics is a cell therapy company that’s redefining clinical outcomes for patients with critical diseases by providing a short-term hematopoietic bridge to immune repair and healthy blood production with long-term immunologic benefits. Nohla’s proven platform generates universal, off-the-shelf therapies that enable improved clinical outcomes across a number of disease indications, with an initial focus on high-risk hematological conditions. Nohla's lead candidate, NLA101, is an expanded progenitor cell therapy that provides the functional support of bone marrow in response to each patient’s unique blood-production needs, without any requirement for HLA matching. The product has demonstrated the potential for robust efficacy in multiple clinical trials, while overcoming the broad safety and logistical risks of patient-customized cell therapies. More information is available at www.nohlatherapeutics.com or Twitter @nohlatx.
For more information, please contact: Jim DeNike Senior Director, Corporate Development & Investor Relations 206.519.5294 jimd@nohlatherapeutics.com
Source: Nohla Therapeutics