WHO :
BLACK ENTERPRISE , the premier business, investment, and wealth-building resource for African Americans, along with the Office of the Mayor and Nationwide.
WHAT:
BLACK ENTERPRISE President & CEO Earl "Butch" Graves Jr. announces that Charlotte, North Carolina, will serve as the host city of the 2018 Black Enterprise Entrepreneurs Summit. As the nation's foremost African American event for business information and networking, the Entrepreneurs Summit consistently attracts more than 1,000 of the nation's most powerful corporate leaders, business owners, venture capitalists, and decision makers.
The 23 rd annual Entrepreneurs Summit is expected to deliver more than $4 million to Charlotte's economy and heighten the profile of the region's 13,000-plus African American- and minority-owned businesses. Previous conference attendees have seized the opportunity to view firsthand more than $5 million in available contracts and funding.
WHERE:
The Park Expo & Conference Center
800 Briar Creek Rd
Charlotte, NC 28205
WHEN:
Tuesday, Jan. 30, 2018
Event Highlights
12:00 p.m.
Remarks
Earl "Butch" Graves Jr., President & CEO BLACK ENTERPRISE
Vi Lyles, Charlotte Mayor
Lu Yarbrough , Associate Vice President, Enterprise Diverse & Cause Marketing, Nationwide 12:20 p.m.
Q & A
12:30 p.m.
One-on-One interviews
The Black Enterprise Entrepreneurs Summit hosted by Nationwide is presented by Toyota and corporate sponsor FedEx.
EDITOR'S NOTE : Interested press should contact Johann Alleyne-Morris at 212-886-9598 or via e-mail at morrisj@blackenterprise.com .
SOCIAL MEDIA NOTE: For information and updates shared from this event on Twitter and other social media platforms, follow @blackenterprise or search the hashtag #BESUMMIT
BLACK ENTERPRISE , your ultimate source of Wealth For Life, is the premier business, investing, and wealth-building resource for African Americans. Since 1970, BE has provided essential business information and advice to professionals, corporate executives, entrepreneurs, and decision makers. Every month, BLACK ENTERPRISE magazine provides 4 million readers with information on entrepreneurship, careers, and financial management. A multimedia company, BE also produces radio and television programming, business and lifestyle events, Web content, and digital media. BLACK ENTERPRISE is the definitive source of information for and about African American business markets and leaders, and the authority on black business news and trends.
Contact: Johann Alleyne-Morris
Media Relations, Black Enterprise
212.886.9598, morrisj@blackenterprise.com
/PRNewswire/ -- Jan. 30, 2018
SOURCE BLACK ENTERPRISE