HOUSTON, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cheniere Energy, Inc. ("Cheniere" or the "Company") (NYSE American: LNG) announced today that it plans to issue its earnings release with respect to fourth quarter and full year 2017 financial results on Wednesday, February 21, 2018 before the market opens. Cheniere will host a conference call for investors and analysts at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central Time) to discuss fourth quarter and full year results.
A listen-only webcast of the call and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Company's website at www.cheniere.com .
After completion of the webcast, a replay will be available on the Company's website.
About Cheniere
Cheniere Energy, Inc., a Houston-based energy company primarily engaged in LNG-related businesses, owns and operates the Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana. Directly and through its subsidiary, Cheniere Energy Partners, L.P., Cheniere is developing, constructing, and operating liquefaction projects near Corpus Christi, Texas and at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, respectively. Cheniere is also exploring a limited number of opportunities directly related to its existing LNG business.
For additional information, please refer to the Cheniere website at www.cheniere.com and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, filed Commission.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that may include "forward-looking statements" within the meanings of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical or present facts or conditions, included herein are "forward-looking statements." Included among "forward-looking statements" are, among other things, (i) statements regarding Cheniere's business strategy, plans and objectives, including the development, construction and operation of liquefaction facilities, (ii) statements regarding expectations regarding regulatory authorizations and approvals, (iii) statements expressing beliefs and expectations regarding the development of Cheniere's LNG terminal and pipeline businesses, including liquefaction facilities, (iv) statements regarding the business operations and prospects of third parties, (v) statements regarding potential financing arrangements and (vi) statements regarding future discussions and entry into contracts. Although Cheniere believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, they do involve assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and these expectations may prove to be incorrect. Cheniere's actual results could those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those discussed in Cheniere's periodic reports that are filed with and available from the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Other than as required under the securities laws, Cheniere does not assume a duty to update these forward-looking statements.
CHENIERE CONTACTS:
Investors
Randy Bhatia:
713-375-5479
Megan Light:
713-375-5492
Media Relations
Eben Burnham-Snyder:
713-375-5764
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cheniere-energy-inc-announces-timing-of-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-release-and-conference-call-300587674.html
SOURCE Cheniere Energy, Inc.