0 COMMENTS NOT ALL biryanis are created equal. The ubiquitous South Asian dish of pillowy rice layered with meat, chicken or fish appears in myriad manifestations across the length of the Indian subcontinent. In the northern city of Lucknow, biryani is heady with rosewater or jasmine; in Bengal, on the east coast, recipes feature fish and mustard seeds; in seaside Kerala, prawns, coconut or aniseed are embedded in the rice; Goans aren’t shy about their use of vinegar or olives. Yet Indian food aficionados tend to agree that one city’s offerings stand out above the rest. “Among all the biryanis, the thoroughbreds are from Hyderabad,” author Pratibha Karan writes in her cookbook “Biryani.” She estimates that you can find some 40 versions of the dish throughout the city.
The mutton biryani at Hotel Shadab. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal While biryani likely originated in Persia (the word derives from “birian,” Farsi for “fried before cooking”) and was introduced to India in the Mughal courts of the north, the dish really flourished in Hyderabad. The city, perched atop the Deccan Plateau in the country’s south-central heart, served as the seat of the Nizam dynasty from 1724 to 1948. The Nizam princes were inveterate epicures, and with the refined ingredients of the north (such as saffron) and the fiery spices of the south at their chefs’ disposal, palace kitchens became de facto culinary innovation labs. 
Hyderabad is particularly renowned for its “katchi,” or raw biryani, where partially cooked rice—already flavored with saffron, cloves and cardamom—is added to a pot of chicken marinated in yogurt, chiles, coriander and fried onions, then steamed slowly until the spices meld and soften. Though heat levels vary, Hyderabadi biryani was never meant to blister the palate. “It [shouldn’t be] too spicy, it’s more about the flavor, the aroma,” said Mumtaz Khan, the grande dame of Hyderabadi cooking, who recently published her recipes in the book “Hyderabadi Khasa.” 
Handi, large pots of biryani, are fixtures at any celebratory meal in the city. But barring an invite to a wedding or holiday feast, here are five spots to start your tasting tour.
In Search of the Best Biyrani in India An adventurous foodie’s guide to the city of Hyderabad Completed in the 1880s, Chowmahalla Palace, in Hyderabad’s Old City, was the seat of the Asaf Jahi dynasty and the official residence of the Nizams of Hyderabad. Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal 1 of 19 • • • • • THE CLASSIC Hotel Shadab 
In the heart of the historic old city, near the iconic 1591 Charminar arch, stands another landmark: Hotel Shadab. Don’t be distracted by the Chinese fare and North Indian kebabs on the menu: Biryani is the star here, in mutton, chicken, vegetarian and prawn varieties. Downstairs, the din of the patrons competes with the buzz of flies hovering overhead. Make sure to head upstairs, where a doorman uniformed in old-fashioned attire ushers families into a more subdued dining room. High Court Road, Charminar; 91-40-2456-5949 
The mutton biryani at Hotel Shadab. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal THE BLUE BLOOD Adaa 
Since biryani was long considered the food of royals, why not chow down in true regal fashion? The chefs at Adaa at the Taj Falaknuma Palace—the opulent former home of the last Nizam, now a posh hotel—endeavor to recreate dishes prepared long ago in the palace kitchens. Aside from the spice-laden gosht dum biryani, the most decadent steamed mutton you’re likely to encounter, house specialties include the haleem (slow-cooked mutton) and khubani ka meetha (apricot pudding). Book a palace tour before the meal (you needn’t be a hotel guest) to peek at some of the lavishly appointed rooms. But for maximum effect, plan to dine at sunset, when the call to prayer echoes from dozens of nearby mosques, qawwali singers croon in the garden and the terrace glows in the twilight. Engine Bowli, Falaknuma; tajhotels.com 
View of the back dining terrace at Taj Falaknuma. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal THE OLD RELIABLE Cafe Bahar 
Be prepared to wait at Cafe Bahar (Hyderabadis seem to insist on pronouncing it “kayf”). You’ll move through the line quickly, however, if you’re willing to share one of the faux-granite-topped tables with strangers. The chicken biryani arrives topped with an egg and has a strong cardamom kick. “It’s a very consistent biryani,” said food writer Vishnu Rao, who oversees the Hyderabad Foodies Facebook group. “There are very few places where you get consistency day in, day out.” Old MLA Quarters Road, Hyderguda, cafebaharhyderabad.com 
Cafe Bahar. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal THE OUTLIER The Spicy Venue 
Andhra biryani, originating in the neighboring state of Andhra Pradesh, is like a distant cousin of Hyderabadi biryani. The Spicy Venue in the swanky neighborhood of Jubilee Hills specializes in Andhra cuisine including a fiery, flavorful chicken-fry pulao. Local artwork and Buddha statues adorn the spotless, elegant dining room. Don’t miss the menu’s cult favorite, Apricot Delight, a riff on the popular Hyderabadi khubani ka meetha dessert made with stewed fruit, sugar and almonds. 265/S Road 10, Jubilee Hills, 91-40-6559-5522 
Ulavacharu Biryani at the Spicy Venue. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal THE CROWD PLEASER Paradise 
A local chain with 12 branches, Paradise has been an institution in the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad since it first opened its doors to hungry diners in 1953. The immaculate outlets and restrained takes on biryani make it a hit with tourists concerned about hygiene and fierce spice levels. At the Secunderabad flagship, wind your way up several open-air levels to head straight for the airy balcony on the top floor. The soundtrack of traffic is pure cacophony and there’s not much of a view. All you’ll see is urban sprawl of shoe stores, pharmacies and billboards hawking mobile phone services, but the lively atmosphere suggests that most patrons are blissfully oblivious to the mayhem unfurling below. Multiple locations, paradisefoodcourt.in 
Chefs holding mutton and vegetable biryanis in Paradise at Secunderabad. Photo: Francesco Lastrucci for The Wall Street Journal THE LOCAL FAVORITE Shah Ghouse 
Those with a delicate constitution should probably order takeout, or bypass this restaurant altogether: The dingy rooms, chintzy red seats, sticky plastic tablecloths and grimy marble floors do little to inspire culinary confidence. Even the family area behind a bright blue curtain is short on cheer, with only a handful of fluorescent bulbs in working order—“We’re trying to save electricity,” the staff said helpfully. But gourmands swear by Shah Ghouse’s mutton biryani, which, at less than $3 for a hefty platter, might be one of the best-value meals you’ll ever eat. It also might be the spiciest; the chefs here are quite generous with the chile. Other menu staples include the nahari stew and the goat tongue (not for the faint of heart). The easygoing service is quintessential Hyderabad, a city where it seems few people place a premium on punctuality. Opposite SA Imperial Gardens, Near RTA Office, Tolichowki; 91-40-6461-7789 
Waiter and people eating bir