SAN DIEGO, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC: MJNA), the first-ever publicly traded cannabis company in the United States, today announced Ian Quinn as the CEO of subsidiary Phyto Animal Health .
Phyto Animal Health offers a line of cannabidiol (CBD) hemp oil supplements and hemp products targeted to cats, dogs and horses. CBD hemp oil has been researched by top veterinarians for cardiovascular, orthopedic and mental health in animals.
Quinn has nearly a decade of experience in the animal health industry. Prior to starting Phyto Animal Health, he was a senior executive for a nationally recognized pet medical device company and helped provide direct support to veterinarians, veterinary colleges and zoos utilizing the company's products and services. For over a decade, Quinn has volunteered as the Director of U.S. Rape Prevention at Just Yell Fire, a non-profit organization aimed to empower teens to fight back against rape, assault and abduction.
Quinn became interested in creating CBD products when he saw first-hand the impact that CBD and cannabis products made with veterans while teaching anger management at local Veteran Affairs housing programs. He collaborated with veterinarians to help his pit bull Dante in the same way and now, since seeing how Dante has benefited greatly from CBD, he hopes to help people across the world bring those same benefits to their pets.
"Our company has almost a decade of experience in providing the therapeutic benefits of CBD to humans and now Mr. Quinn has made it possible for us to offer the same to animals," said Medical Marijuana, Inc. CEO Dr. Stuart Titus. "His vast experience paired with his caring, entrepreneurial spirit makes him a perfect leader in our family of companies."
In his new role as CEO, Quinn will oversee all operations, marketing efforts and product development for Phyto Animal Health.
About Phyto Animal Health
As a company that cares about the health and wellbeing of all animals, Phyto Animal Health also cares about the earth. Using the least amount of water and other resources to create its products, the Company aims to leave the smallest footprint possible while helping provide cats, dogs and horses with the nutrients they need to have outstanding mental and physical health.
About Medical Marijuana, Inc.
We are a company of firsts®. Our mission is to be the premier cannabis and hemp industry innovators, leveraging our team of professionals to source, evaluate and purchase value-added companies and products, while allowing them to keep their integrity and entrepreneurial spirit. We strive to create awareness within our industry, develop environmentally-friendly, economically sustainable businesses, while increasing shareholder value. For details on Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s portfolio and investment companies, visit www.medicalmarijuanainc.com .
To see Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s corporate video, click here .
Shareholders and consumers are also encouraged to buy CBD oil and other products at Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s shop .
FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLAIMER
This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements and information, as defined within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is subject to the Safe Harbor created by those sections. This material contains statements about expected future events and/or financial results that are forward-looking in nature and subject to risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements by definition involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Medical Marijuana, Inc. to be materially different from the statements made herein.
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) DISCLOSURE
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, treat or cure any disease.
LEGAL DISCLOSURE
Medical Marijuana, Inc. does not sell or distribute any products that are in violation of the United States Controlled Substances Act (US.CSA). These companies do grow, sell, and distribute hemp-based products and are involved with the federally legal distribution of medical marijuana-based products within certain international markets. Cannabidiol is a natural constituent of hemp oil.
CONTACT:
Public Relations Contact:
Andrew Hard
Chief Executive Officer CMW Media
P. 888-829-0070
andrew.hard@cmwmedia.com
www.cmwmedia.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/medical-marijuana-inc-subsidiary-phyto-animal-health-names-ian-quinn-as-ceo-300590836.html
SOURCE Medical Marijuana, Inc.