BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Symetra Life Insurance Company today announced a leadership change in the company’s Benefits Division with the promotion of Harry Monti to senior vice president for its group Life and Disability (LAD) and Select Benefits fixed payment medical businesses, effective April 1, 2018. Monti will succeed Craig Raymond, who will be retiring.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005799/en/
Symetra promoted Harry Monti to senior vice president for its group Life and Disability (LAD) and Select Benefits fixed payment medical businesses, effective April 1, 2018. Monti will succeed Craig Raymond, who will be retiring. (Photo: Business Wire)
Monti, currently vice president, LAD operations, will continue to be based in Symetra’s Enfield, Connecticut office, and will report to Michael Fry, executive vice president, Benefits Division. In his new role, he will have overall responsibility for two of the division’s three employee benefits practices, which also includes medical stop-loss insurance.
“Harry has been an integral part of the evolution of Symetra’s LAD and Select Benefits business lines. A strong operational leader, his strategic oversight has seen our customer service evolve into a key differentiator for us in the benefits marketplace. Harry’s deep knowledge of both lines positions him well to continue the growth and development of these organizations,” said Michael Fry. “Craig Raymond has played a critical role in the development of LAD and Select Benefits, adding scale, launching innovative products, growing sales and assembling a strong leadership team. We’re very grateful for the strong foundation he has built and wish him well.”
Monti joined Symetra in June 2014, bringing 25 years of broad financial, operations and strategic experience. Prior to Symetra, he was director, Insurance Advisory Services with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in Hartford, Conn., providing advice and support to group benefits clients on administrative, claims and strategic issues. He’d previously spent 13 years in senior level operational and claims roles within The Hartford’s group benefits, retirement plans and enterprise-wide shared services organizations. In addition, Monti has held various leadership positions with MassMutual and UNUM. Monti earned a Bachelor of Science in accounting from Thomas College in Waterville, Maine. He is a certified public accountant (CPA) and a fellow of the Life Management Institute (FLMI).
Raymond has headed Symetra’s LAD business since October 2013, adding Select Benefits in 2015. He joined Symetra as senior vice president and chief strategy officer in September 2012 from John Hancock Financial Services.
About Symetra
Symetra Life Insurance Company is a subsidiary of Symetra Financial Corporation, a diversified financial services company based in Bellevue, Washington. In business since 1957, Symetra provides employee benefits, annuities and life insurance through a national network of benefit consultants, financial institutions, and independent agents and advisors. For more information, visit www.symetra.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005799/en/
Symetra Life Insurance Company
Diana McSweeney, 425-256-6167
diana.mcsweeney@symetra.com
Source: Symetra Life Insurance Company