STAMFORD, Conn., BlockTower Capital , a leading institutional cryptocurrency investment firm, today announced that Michael Bucella has joined as the new Global Head of Strategic Partnerships and Business Development.
Bucella joins BlockTower from Goldman Sachs, where he held a series of leadership roles since 2008, most recently in the Securities Division with responsibility for the Multi-Asset Sales & Trading business in Canada and for leading efforts to expand this strategy globally.
"We are thrilled to have Mike join our team at a pivotal time for the cryptocurrency market," said Matthew Goetz, Managing Partner and CEO at BlockTower. "As this global, important new industry becomes increasingly institutionalized, Mike's invaluable experience at the intersection of markets, strategies, and investors will help BlockTower continue on its growth trajectory and continue to serve its clients and partners."
Previously, Bucella helped lead Goldman's Institutional Global Equities business, and prior to that, was part of the firm's Asset Management Division (GSAM) where he focused on investment strategies, capital markets, and institutional investors globally.
"I am eager to leverage my experience to further the growth of BlockTower through global expansion of its strategic partnerships," added Bucella. "We are in the early days of this new asset class, and I am thrilled to join a firm with a unique investment philosophy, institutional risk-managed approach to the market opportunity, and brand reputation across the entire crypto-ecosystem from early stage technologies and blockchain projects to listed coins and liquid trading."
About BlockTower Capital
BlockTower Capital is a leading institutional cryptocurrency investment firm, bringing professional trading and portfolio management to an emerging digital asset class. It was founded by former engineer and Goldman Sachs Executive Matthew Goetz, and former University of Chicago Endowment Portfolio Manager and Susquehanna International Group Trader and Portfolio Manager Ari Paul. Matthew currently serves as Chief Executive Officer, and Ari as Chief Investment Officer.
Contact Information
Prosek Partners
Schernova@prosek.com
(212) 279-3115 ext.261
 : releases/blocktower-capital-hires-goldman-sachs-executive-to-head-global-strategic-partnerships-and-business-development-300577525.html
SOURCE BlockTower Capital