SAN MATEO, Calif., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Trident Capital Cybersecurity (TCC), a venture fund investing in cybersecurity companies, announced today the promotion of Will Lin to Principal.
"This promotion reflects Will's substantial contributions to our firm," said Alberto Yépez, Co-Founder and Managing Director. "He's demonstrated leadership as part of the founding team spun out of Trident Capital and is building on the momentum of our partnership."
Lin currently serves as a board observer of 4iQ, Attivo Networks and Bayshore Networks.
"I'm excited to be a part of this category-defining firm and diverse team with deep expertise and relationships," Lin said. "The ability to work with our collective network of partners, entrepreneurs, customers and advisors has been a tremendous learning opportunity."
Tushar Kothari, the CEO of Attivo Networks, a leader in deception-based threat detection, is also impressed with Lin's strengths. "Will is incisive. Additionally, he has the network to make relevant connections that are very beneficial," Kothari said.
About Trident Capital Cybersecurity
Trident Capital Cybersecurity (TCC) is a $300 million venture fund focused on investing in early stage and select growth equity cybersecurity companies. The firm is well known as the venture capital firm with peerless connections in cybersecurity. Its 47-person Cybersecurity Industry Advisory Council, including industry executives, serial entrepreneurs , customers and former government leaders, is often recognized for its insights, connections and go-to-market support of portfolio companies. TCC's current portfolio companies include 4iQ, Appthority, Attivo, Bayshore Networks, ID Experts, IronNet Cybersecurity, Prevoty and ReversingLabs. The team has been investing in cybersecurity since 1998 and made 34 cybersecurity investments throughout their investment careers.
For more information visit www.tridentcybersecurity.com . Contact: Jennifer Jones, Jennifer@jenniferjones.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/trident-capital-cybersecurity-promotes-will-lin-to-principal-300583723.html
SOURCE Trident Capital Cybersecurity