ATLANTA, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Jackson Healthcare, a leading provider of healthcare staffing, search and technology services, has acquired Avant Healthcare Professionals of Orlando, Florida.
Avant, a pioneer in the field of international recruitment and placement of healthcare professionals, makes long-term matches between qualified international clinical professionals and client healthcare facilities in the United States. Avant provides clinical and cultural transitions training, as well as personalized, ongoing support.
Avant, which has more than 650 employees in over 38 states, has placed more than 1,800 international nurses, physical therapists and occupational therapists throughout the U.S. It currently has over 500 nurses and therapists on assignment. The company has grown 45 percent annually since inception in 2003. It has been celebrated as one of the top 50 fastest-growing women-led companies in the U.S and listed in the INC. 5000 multiple times.
"Avant is the clear leader in international recruitment, an effective solution for filling critical staffing needs," explains Jackson Healthcare President Shane Jackson. "We share similar values about caring for professionals and facilities to ensure excellent patient care, and we are confident that our cultures will mesh well."
Avant founder and CEO Shari Dingle Costantini, RN, MBA, is a renowned expert in the healthcare industry, with 29 years of experience in strategic leadership, nursing and international nurse staffing. She will report to Jackson Healthcare Group President Scott L'Heureux, who leads several Jackson Healthcare companies based in Orlando, with more than 100 local Jackson associates that place thousands of healthcare professionals in all 50 states.
"Jackson Healthcare brings us the strength of one of the nation's largest healthcare staffing organizations. We will leverage this to meet the tremendous market demand, and continue to excel as industry leaders," said Ms. Costantini. "The Avant team is excited about mission alignment, helping more healthcare professionals realize their American Dream while impacting the lives of patients and clients."
Jackson Healthcare is the third-largest U.S. healthcare staffing firm by revenue and is Atlanta's 17 th largest private company. Its 17 portfolio companies employ more than 1,200 associates and earn revenues of more than $900 million. Jackson is routinely acknowledged as an employer of choice, earning Atlanta Business Chronicle's "Best Place to Work" and certification as a Fortune "Great Place to Work." Visit JacksonHealthcare.com to learn more.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jackson-healthcare-acquires-avant-healthcare-professionals-300578274.html
SOURCE Jackson Healthcare