CARLSBAD, Calif., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- DCN Dx, Inc. , a leading developer of rapid point-of-care diagnostic tests, announced today that John L. Tonkinson, Ph.D. has joined the company in the newly created role of Chief Business Development Officer. In this role, Dr. Tonkinson will be responsible for defining and implementing a strategic growth plan to enable the company to maintain its position as the recognized leader in the development of point-of-care diagnostic tests and the definitive training resource for developing lateral flow immunoassays.
Over the last 15 years, Dr. Tonkinson has developed and led commercial efforts at several biotechnology companies with a focus on building teams and establishing business models to bring technologies and manufacturing capabilities to broader markets. Earlier in his career, he ran an R&D team at S&S Bioscience that was responsible for developing materials and products for lateral flow assays, solid phase blood collection and separation, and micro-spot ELISA assays on thin films.
"We are delighted to have John join the DCN team," stated Brendan O'Farrell, President of DCN Dx. "His background and experience in science and in business is a perfect fit with DCN as we grow to the next level. We expect that his diverse background working with small and large companies in all areas of scientific product development and commercialization will be a strong asset."
Dr. Tonkinson stated "DCN is highly regarded as the best resource for development of lateral flow immunoassays and other rapid point-of-care devices and tests. It's an honor to be part of such a great team that has seen incredible growth in the last several years in numerous markets including bio-defense, food safety, animal care and medical diagnostics. I'm looking forward to helping the company grow to the next level."
Dr. Tonkinson earned his Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics from Columbia University and completed a Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Cancer Drug Discovery at Eli Lilly and Co.
About DCN Dx, Inc.
DCN Dx is the definitive resource for rapid assay system development insight and expertise. Headquartered in Carlsbad, CA, DCN Dx assists clients through all stages of new product design and development to create user-centric, high performance rapid assay systems. DCN Dx combines a deep understanding of lateral flow assay applications, markets and technology with advanced design and development capabilities to bring products to market.
CONTACT: Margaret Cogan, mcogan@dcndx.com , 1-760-804-3886
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dcn-dx-inc-appoints-john-l-tonkinson-phd-as-chief-business-development-officer-300580127.html
SOURCE DCN