INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Premiere Credit of North America (PCNA), LLC, a national accounts receivable management firm headquartered in Indianapolis, announced a significant expansion of its government receivables team with the addition of five key leaders. Milton Cuevas was named vice president of the government division; Stuart Vos has joined as director of government solutions; Charlie Helms has joined as director of account management; Bob Dittmer, APR, was named senior consultant, marketing and public relations; and Kate McCoy was hired as manager, marketing communications.
"These industry professionals bring significant experience and expertise to our growing company and will help us continue to enhance our quality services to our clients," said PCNA CEO Feroze Waheed. "Milton, Stuart and Charlie will expand our ability to reach federal, state and local government and agency entities to help them enhance revenue collection, and Bob and Kate will ensure our team has the tools they need to explain the various products and services we offer to government and agency organizations to improve customer service, optimize their cash flow and replenish taxpayer funds. We are pleased to have attracted such talented teammates to PCNA."
Cuevas brings more than 28 years of leadership experience to PCNA, including extensive experience in the banking and accounts receivable management industries. Most recently, he served as deputy commissioner for collections for the Indiana Department of Revenue from 2012 to 2016 and as vice president of government client relations for Transworld Systems, Inc. from 2016 to 2017. Cuevas holds a BA from the University of Mississippi.
Vos comes to Premiere after more than 34 years with the Iowa state government, including 19 years with the Iowa Department of Revenue (IDOR) and nine years with the Iowa College Student Aid Commission. In his last four years with IDOR, Vos served as the executive deputy director of the agency. He has extensive experience with state taxation systems and revenue management. Vos holds a BS from Iowa State University.
Helms joins Premiere after serving more than 26 years with the North Carolina Department of Revenue in various roles. During his final 11 years, Helms served as the division director of tax compliance/collections and director of taxpayer assistance. In addition to his state leadership role, Helms interacted with the state legislature regularly, providing a practical understanding of tax administration and how proposed laws could achieve positive outcomes. He holds a BA from North Carolina State University.
Dittmer most recently served as deputy commissioner of tax administration with the Indiana Department of Revenue from 2015 to January 2017 and has more than 45 years of leadership, management and marketing experience. Dittmer has served in numerous public relations positions, including four years as director of public relations for the Indiana Departments of Revenue and Labor prior to his appointment as deputy commissioner. Dittmer is a retired United States Army officer, serving for 20 years. He holds an MA from Marshall University.
McCoy joins the PCNA team with more than 16 years of marketing experience in the government, financial services, healthcare, and higher education industries, most recently as vice president, marketing and communications with Delta Management Associates, Inc. She has extensive experience in strategic marketing communications, proposal/technical writing and brand management. McCoy holds an MBA from Xavier University.
"In expanding our PCNA government division, we expect to provide enhanced services to our clients while better positioning the firm for increased growth," said Cuevas. "PCNA has a unique approach to accounts receivable management, and I'm proud to lead this outstanding government receivables team and to bring these superb professionals to our clients. Together, we will deliver our best-in-class collection services to help government and agency entities increase collections, reduce costs, and improve the accuracy of their receivables management processes, all for the benefit of their citizens."
Premiere Credit of North America (PCNA) is a leading national accounts receivable management firm successfully managing more than two million accounts valued at nearly $17 billion. More than 350 PCNA associates help people solve financial challenges in an ethical, results-driven, security-focused and compliant culture. The company is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, with operations in Nashville, Tennessee, and Batavia, New York. For more information, go to www.premierecredit.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/premiere-credit-of-north-america-expands-its-government-receivables-team-300575048.html
SOURCE Premiere Credit of North America, LLC