MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today Polaris Industries Inc. (NYSE: PII) announced that Mike Donoughe will join Polaris as chief technical officer (CTO). Effective January 22, Donoughe will report operationally to Executive Vice President of Global Operations, Engineering, and Lean Ken Pucel, and dual report to Chairman and CEO Scott Wine as a member of Polaris’ executive leadership team.
“I am excited to welcome Mike to the Polaris team. He is an accomplished leader with a proven track record of delivering strong results and guiding world-class engineering organizations,” said Wine. “Mike’s extensive experience in product development and corporate strategy, along with his deep insight into leading-edge technology, will accelerate innovation and product superiority at Polaris.”
For the majority of his career, Donoughe has led engineering, product design and development, and manufacturing operations at automotive companies, including Chrysler and Mercedes-Benz. He has been at the forefront of automotive technology, helping to advance strategies and drive growth at numerous companies, including Tesla, Octillion Energy Holdings, Alta Motors and Sight Machine. Most recently, Donoughe was a founding partner and principal of Third Shore Group, an investment and advisory firm focused on technology development and commercialization.
Donoughe earned his master’s degree in business administration from the University of Michigan, along with a master’s degree in mechanical engineering from Wayne State University. He received his bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Toledo.
Donoughe succeeds Steve Kemp, current vice president and CTO, who is taking on a new role at Polaris as vice president of Technology, Electronics & Software.
“With his extensive experience, knowledge, and vision, Steve is ideally suited for this critical new technology role. He will guide Polaris’ continued efforts to grow our technology capabilities and increase the connectivity of our vehicles through more integrated technology and electronics.”
About Polaris
Polaris Industries Inc. (NYSE: PII) is a global powersports leader that has been fueling the passion of riders, workers and outdoor enthusiasts for more than 60 years. With annual 2016 sales of $4.5 billion, Polaris’ innovative, high-quality product line-up includes the RANGER ® , RZR ® and Polaris GENERAL™ side-by-side off-road vehicles; the Sportsman ® and Polaris ACE ® all-terrain off-road vehicles; Indian Motorcycle ® midsize and heavyweight motorcycles; Slingshot ® moto-roadsters; and Polaris RMK ® , INDY ® , Switchback ® and RUSH ® snowmobiles. Polaris enhances the riding experience with parts, garments and accessories, along with a growing aftermarket portfolio, including Transamerica Auto Parts. Polaris’ presence in adjacent markets globally include military and commercial off-road vehicles, quadricycles, and electric vehicles. Proudly headquartered in Minnesota, Polaris serves more than 100 countries across the globe. Visit www.polaris.com for more information.
Click here to subscribe to Mobile Alerts for Polaris Industries Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005235/en/
Polaris Industries Inc.
Jess Rogers, 763-513-3445
Jessica.Rogers@polaris.com
Source: Polaris Industries Inc.