RACINE, Wis., Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Modine Manufacturing Company (NYSE: MOD), a diversified global leader in thermal management technology and solutions, is pleased to welcome Sylvia A. Stein, JD, to the role of Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
As Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Ms. Stein will serve as a legal advisor to Modine's senior management team, business unit leaders, and Board of Directors. She will also lead the global Legal, Compliance and Intellectual Property functions.
Ms. Stein joins Modine with 25 years of experience in the legal field. Most recently, she was the Associate General Counsel, Marketing & Regulatory at The Kraft Heinz Company in Chicago, IL, where she led the legal team for the U.S. retail business units, food regulatory, marketing services and data privacy functions. She received her undergraduate degree from Northwestern University and her law degree from the University of Michigan Law School.
"We are thrilled to welcome Sylvia to our team," said Thomas A. Burke, President & CEO. "She possesses the right combination of legal experience, business knowledge and leadership skills to help Modine execute our global business strategies."
About Modine
Modine, with fiscal 2017 revenues of $1.5 billion, specializes in thermal management systems and components, bringing highly engineered heating and cooling components, original equipment products, and systems to diversified global markets through its three complementary business units: Vehicular Thermal Solutions (VTS); Commercial & Industrial Solutions (CIS); and Building HVAC Systems (BHVAC). Modine is a global company headquartered in Racine, Wisconsin (USA), with operations in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. For more information about Modine, visit www.modine.com .
Contact:
Amanda Bulgrin
(262) 636-8466
a.a.bulgrin@na.modine.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/modine-hires-vice-president-general-counsel--corporate-secretary-300589000.html
SOURCE Modine Manufacturing Company