
Number of U.S. employees: 17,417 
Employees say: 
“Our CEO puts a lot of effort into making sure all employees are valued and rewarded and has established an overall vision for Salesforce’s culture on that basis. Leadership takes it from there and designs programs to carry out that vision.” 
“Salesforce is a great place to work because you are truly appreciated as an individual. One big aspect of that is the manager-employee relationship, which from day 1 was a brand new experience for me. My manager actually took an active interest in me personally as well as professionally. As an engineer, he gave me practical advice and helped me plan out a timeline for my career trajectory based on my goals. I had a say in what projects I worked on, instead of just being handed work blindly. I was given opportunities each release to get more visibility from higher-ups. Most importantly, though, is that when I completed everything on the plan, he kept his word and I was rewarded with a promotion. It really blew me away that it was that simple and made me realize how much was lacking from managers I had had at previous companies.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 4. World Wide Technology Courtesy of World Wide Technology 
U.S. headquarters: St. Louis, Mo. Industry vertical: Hardware, software, online Internet services, IT consulting, storage/data management Number of U.S. employees: 4,128 
Employees say: 
“There is a great sense of community and openness that surrounds WWT as a whole. I think there is a great amount of collaboration, innovation and team work between different areas of the business. It’s a relaxed and friendly work environment.” 
“I’ve never been exposed to company that is so positive, promotes innovation and sharing information and ideas. It is truly a place that you wish everyone could experience, if they did they wouldn’t want to leave, but if they had to, they would take the experience with them and make them better. What makes it so great? Everyone’s attitude! Everyone wants to see success, not just for them, but for the entire team.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 5. SAP America 
U.S. headquarters: Newtown Square, Pa. Industry vertical: Software Number of U.S. employees: 18,379 
Employees say: 
“It’s easy to feel like you’re not making an impact when you work for a multi-national corporation, but at SAP, risk-taking and big thinking is encouraged. If you have an idea and a plan to get it done, no one will stop you from bringing it to life.” 
“SAP is a unique place to work because the company is investing in the next generation of leaders. SAP understands the power of preparing the young work force to collaborate on the challenges of today and tomorrow. To harness the early talent perspective and ensure the early talent is fully leveraged inside SAP, the company is offering a wide variety of on-boarding tools to jump start our careers. When I first joined SAP Marketing, I was fortunate enough to attend the SAP Marketing Early Talent Academy with 25 early talent individuals from 9 different countries. The two weeks of workshops, training and social outreach projects (with individuals that will soon carry the torch and lead the company to new heights) was an experience I will never forget. It has fundamentally reshaped my perspective of SAP, my career and has instilled a great passion for the company I now call home.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 6. Zillow Group Courtesy of Shidume Lozada/Zillow Group 
U.S. headquarters: Seattle Industry vertical: Online Internet services Number of U.S. employees: 2,908 
Employees say: 
“It’s the people who really believe in the core values of the company that boil down to just being a good human being. This all comes from the top of the leadership of the company that have a true ‘what you see, is what you get’ structure.” 
“We are given a great deal of opportunities to voice our opinions/suggestions and concerns. Everyone has a voice, regardless of position, which is not always the case at other companies. There is a strong team vibe on a daily basis across all departments and at a company level, which is not an easy task being as large as we have grown.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 7. Intuit 
U.S. headquarters: Mountain View, Calif. Industry vertical: Software Number of U.S. employees: 6,389 
Employees say: 
“Intuit is a great place to work because leadership encourages growth and change. Change is a constant around here, whether it is people moving or projects and priorities shift. Employees embrace this and gain the experience of how to adapt.” 
“I started working here when I was fresh out of high school, and now nearly 15 years later I love Intuit even more than the day I started working here. Because of the environment that Intuit fosters I have grown professionally and individually more than I ever thought possible. Every manager I have had has embodied the Intuit Values and created a safe environment for me to experiment and learn. I feel empowered to try new ways of making our customer’s lives better. I love that, at the end of the day, what truly matters is that we are in the business to help people not just to make a profit.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 8. NVIDIA 
U.S. headquarters: Santa Clara, Calif. Number of U.S. employees: 5,658 
Employees say: 
“The CEO is not only a great leader but also a person you can engage with. He cares for every single employee in the company. He recently helped my family in a very critical personal crisis and I owe my life to him for it.” 
“NVIDIA’s culture is to empower each person in the company to use their expertise to help take thoughtful, aggressive risks and learn from either success or failure. It is to enable each individual, and by extension the organization, to be a learning machine running at a pace that is not gated by any external process, only themselves. It is both immensely exciting and incredibly challenging, and unique in my experience across companies. It is a culture that has taken dedicated effort to grow organically over time, and will not be easily deflected. As a result it has been able to survive and absorb significant company growth while retaining it’s core character. A truly special place to work, and an exceptional group of people to work with.” 
Read Great Place to Work review here . 9. VMware Courtesy of Damion I. Hamilton 
U.S. headquarters: Palo Alto, Calif. Industry vertical: Software Number of U.S. employees: 9,771 
Employees say: 
“I feel that at VMware we are really valued and I feel that my contribution counts. I feel that I’m trusted with a responsibility to do whats best for the company and that I am an ambassador for the company.” 
“Aside from its ability to adapt and continually make industry changing contributions, this place is so philanthropic and conscious of society and the Earth. I have never felt so much inspiration to give back to my community or to adjust my lifestyle to be less of a strain on the Earth. And the best part is the company rewards you for doing so. I give this credit to our leader, Pat Gelsinger, who truly lives the values he speaks. Also this company hosts its own internal research conference annually where anyone in R&D can submit their ideas of how to improve the company or help the industr