Samuel Corum | Anadolu Agency | Getty Images Steve Bannon 
When President Donald Trump takes the stage in the Capitol on Tuesday night to deliver his first State of the Union address , America will hear a number of different voices. 
When Trump speaks about immigration, he is likely to channel senior White House advisor Stephen Miller, responsible for crafting many of Trump's speeches — and major parts of his immigration policy. When Trump lays out his infrastructure plan, he'll likely be sharing ideas nurtured by chief economic advisor Gary Cohn . 
If Trump hews to tradition, then Cohn and Miller can expect to be seated in the audience while the president speaks. 
The same cannot be said, however, for Steve Bannon . The former White House chief strategist is persona non grata in the White House, following the publication of "Fire and Fury," a damning tell-all about the inner workings of Trump's White House by Michael Wolff. The book, which relied heavily on Bannon for sourcing, faces scrutiny over its accuracy. It also includes Bannon insulting Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr., both adult children of the president. 
Yet more than anyone else, Bannon shaped Trump's agenda during the administration's first year, and Trump's victory lap on Tuesday will be Bannon's, too. Even though Bannon is out of favor with the president and has been booted from his job running the right-wing site Breitbart, his nationalist, populist, isolationist policy vision will likely be woven throughout the speech. 
So, too, will the goals that Bannon laid out on whiteboards lining the walls of his West Wing office, which Bannon closely guarded. Officially billed as a list of Trump's campaign pledges, in reality, the whiteboards displayed a list of Bannon's longtime policy goals. 
The former top executive of Breitbart News would check off what he thought had been accomplished, and move priorities around as events unfolded. As Trump speaks on Tuesday, the whiteboard lists will read like a cheat sheet for the president's greatest victories, his goals and how Bannon's view of the world lives on in the West Wing. 
Few people outside the West Wing ever saw Bannon's whiteboards: The best image of them likely came out in May, when Rabbi Shmuley Boteach visited Bannon in his office and tweeted out photos of their meeting. Rabbi tweet 
At the time, Bannon was already well on his way to fulfilling many of his goals. Below is a partial list of what Bannon wrote down, based on what was visible, with checks next to the items Bannon believed he had accomplished. 
Pledges on Immigration Cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities ✔ 
Trump has attempted this but has been met with numerous court challenges. Suspend immigration from terror-prone regions ✔ Implement new extreme immigration vetting techniques ✔ Suspend the Syrian Refugee Program ✔ 
On the three items above, Trump has basically succeeded. After a year of legal battles, the Supreme Court permitted parts of Trump's so-called travel ban to go into effect. Other pieces, such as deep cuts to the number of refugees admitted, are still being litigated. In the meantime, the number of refugees admitted to the United States has dropped by more than half. Hire 5,000 more border patrol agents ✔ Triple the number of ICE agents ✔ 
To help it hire more agents , the Trump administration hired a consulting firm late last year. Still, for agencies already facing staff shortages and recruitment problems, it's far from certain that this will be an easy fix. Build the border wall and eventually make Mexico pay for it 
This hasn't come to pass, yet, but just a few items down on Bannon's list, he had written, "Immediately terminate Obama's two illegal executive orders…" One of these orders was the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Last fall, Trump rescinded the shield it provided to young undocumented people who came to the United States as children. Now, a debate over whether (or how) to fund Trump's border wall in exchange for permanent DACA protections is among the most pressing issues in Congress. 
National defense Pay more for joint defense 
Presumably, this is a reference to U.S. allies in mutual defense agreements with the United States. Trump has often argued that North Atlantic Treaty Organization member states need to commit a bigger chunk of their gross domestic products to national defense. Indeed, in June, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said U.S. allies plan to boost their defense spending . Submit a plan to defeat ISIS Syrian refugees Move U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem 
The embassy move is one of Bannon's biggest wins. Two years ago, most members of the foreign policy establishment would have said that moving the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem was unthinkable. But in December, Trump announced his plans to do so. Israel cheered the decision, but the rest of the world condemned the move. 
Pledges on Obamacare Repeal and replace Obamacare 
After a year of trying, Congress was ultimately unable to "repeal" Obamacare outright. But Trump still managed to significantly weaken key parts of the Affordable Care Act, including the individual mandate. 
Pledges on tax reform Create a 10 percent repatriation tax Lower the corporate tax to 15 percent Eliminate the estate tax Eliminate the carried interest loophole 
The new GOP tax law will offer Trump his best chance to take a victory lap on Tuesday, and there's a lot for the president, and Bannon, to crow about. In early August, Bannon's whiteboard reflected the growing importance of a tax cuts bill, as evidenced by this photo from author Dinesh D'Souza's visit. The photo was taken about two weeks before Bannon was forced out amid a West Wing shakeup that began when John Kelly replaced Reince Priebus as White House chief of staff. Wilkie tweet 
"TAXES!!!" was written at the top of the board. The tax bill didn't close the carried interest loophole, as Bannon and Trump both wanted as a way to tax wealthier individuals, but most of their policy wants made it to law in some form. Now, fewer wealthy families will have to pay the estate tax, and repatriation taxes are have changed. At the bottom of the board, in all capital letters, is "CUT CORP TAX." While Bannon didn't get the corporate rate all the way down to 15 percent from 35 percent, it's now 21 percent. 
The bill, passed in December, is Trump's signature legislative achievement to date. 
And while Bannon certainly supported the tax cuts, his real interests lay in trade, immigration and infrastructure, three issues poised to dominate the 2018 political landscape. 
For Bannon, his signature achievements may still be ahead of him.