Recognized leader in national security and intelligence mission capabilities
HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Peraton has announced the appointment of L. Roger Mason, Ph.D. as president of its newly formed Space, Intelligence and Cyber sector, effective January 8, 2018.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005289/en/
Peraton Appoints L. Roger Mason as President of Newly Formed Space, Intelligence and Cyber Sector (Photo: Business Wire)
As sector president, Roger will have full executive responsibility for the sector’s strategy development and execution, program performance, and growth objectives. The Space, Intelligence and Cyber sector delivers advanced, mission-specific technology capabilities across a broad range of national security, civil space, and intelligence community customers.
“Roger’s service to our nation, his deep understanding of the space, intelligence and cyber domains, and his exceptional business acumen will serve as invaluable assets as we further position and differentiate our company within the space, intelligence and cyber markets,” said Stu Shea, Peraton CEO.
Roger joins Peraton from Noblis, a leading provider of science, technology, and strategy services, where he most recently served as senior vice president, National Security and Intelligence. While there he had executive responsibility for Noblis’ national security missions including intelligence, defense, homeland security, and law enforcement. He also oversaw Noblis’ two wholly owned subsidiaries, Noblis ESI, LLC and Noblis NSP, LLC, focused on supporting the Intelligence Community.
Prior to his role at Noblis, Roger served with distinction as the first assistant director of National Intelligence for Systems and Resource Analyses (ADNI/SRA). As the DNI’s principal intelligence officer, he was the trusted advisor for all intelligence capabilities, resources, requirements, systems analysis, program evaluation, and cost analysis matters. He was awarded the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal – the highest award in the Intelligence Community – for his role in establishing a critical new capability, combining operations research, decision sciences, and business analytics. This effort supported the DNI and other senior intelligence agency leaders in their decision making process across myriad complex intelligence issues affecting national security.
Roger earned his doctorate and master’s degrees in engineering physics (nuclear) from the University of Virginia, a master’s degree in business administration from Northwestern University’s Kellogg School, and a bachelor’s degree in physics from The George Washington University.
About Peraton
Peraton provides innovative, reliable solutions to the nation’s most sensitive and mission-critical programs and systems. Peraton has significant experience providing highly differentiated space, intelligence, cyber/SIGINT, defense, homeland security, electronic warfare and secure communications solutions, and has become a trusted partner on missions that are critical to the security priorities of the United States. Capabilities include complex software and technology services and solutions, as well as end-to-end mission operations capabilities, including software systems development, offensive and defense cyber operations, modeling & simulation, mission management, and Quick Reaction Capabilities (QRC) / Research & Development. The company is headquartered in Herndon, VA, with approximately 3,500 employees across the U.S. and Canada.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005289/en/
Peraton
Jaime Orlando, 703-668-6443
jorlan01@peraton.com
Source: Peraton