SAN ANTONIO, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Acuity Hospital of South Texas (AHST) is pleased to announce that Douglas B. Jackson has been named executive director of provider relations.
With more than 25 years of healthcare business development expertise, Jackson was considered the perfect fit for the position.
"Doug's knowledge of the industry, commitment to the community, and ability to build and maintain relationships makes him a powerful force for the Acuity team," said Melissa Low, chief executive officer of AHST. With Doug's leadership and business development knowledge, Acuity will continue to be the region's premier specialty hospital in San Antonio."
Jackson, a native of San Antonio, said he's excited to join the Acuity team. "It's an honor to work side-by-side with some of the best clinicians in the industry serving my hometown of San Antonio at an organization with such a strong commitment to providing the very best care to their patients while delivering quality outcomes."
Doug's experience includes serving as director of business development, where he oversaw hospital planning and marketing ventures. He also worked extensively with other departments, planned special events, and engaged with the media.
Jackson began his career as a licensed practical nurse providing care for critically ill patients and serving as a liaison between family members and physicians. In his previous positions, he trained new nurses and had a hand in promoting hospital services through public awareness.
Jackson is an alumnus of Thomas Jefferson High School. He holds an associate degree in science from St. Phillip's College. He also served for two years at Fort Sam Houston and Brook Army Medical Center, both in San Antonio. He was an Army nurse for six years.
Acuity Hospital of South Texas is conveniently located in downtown San Antonio, serving the city, the Texas Hill Country, and the Rio Grande Valley.
The primary goals of Acuity Hospital are to treat medically complex and critically ill patients who require long-term care by delivering a comprehensive, patient focused care model with proven clinical outcomes for high acuity patients in a family-friendly atmosphere.
The hospital is a beautiful and modern 30-bed long-term acute care facility. It has 12 intensive-care unit beds and special procedure suites with the latest technology, including computed tomography (CT) scanning. The hospital also has clinical expertise in pulmonary/ventilator management, wound treatment, and infectious disease.
Acuity Hospital of South Texas has been awarded the Beacon Award. To learn about Acuity Healthcare, please visit www.acuityhealthcare.net .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/acuity-hospital-of-south-texas-hires-douglas-b-jackson-executive-director-of-provider-relations-300577007.html
SOURCE Acuity Healthcare