Company Also Announces Plans to Present at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Coca-Cola Company has revised the release date for fourth quarter and full year 2017 financial results to Feb. 16, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.
The additional time will allow management to more fully assess the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States, including changes to the company’s effective tax rate.
The earnings release on Feb. 16 will be followed by an investor conference call at 9 a.m. ET on the same day to discuss the results.
The company also announced that President and CEO James Quincey and Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller will present at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) Conference in Boca Raton, Fla., at 10 a.m. ET on Feb. 20.
The company invites investors to join webcasts for these events on its website at www.coca-colacompany.com/investors . Downloadable files for both events will be available within 24 hours after the event on the company’s website.
About The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company (NYSE: KO) is the world’s largest total beverage company, offering over 500 brands to people in more than 200 countries. Of our 21 billion-dollar brands, 19 are available in lower- and no-sugar options to help people everywhere more easily control added sugar. In addition to our namesake Coca-Cola drinks, some of our household names around the world include: AdeS soy-based beverages, Ayataka green tea, Dasani waters, Del Valle juices and nectars, Fanta, Georgia coffee, Gold Peak teas and coffees, Honest Tea, Minute Maid juices, Powerade sports drinks, Simply juices, smartwater, Sprite, vitaminwater, and Zico coconut water. At Coca-Cola, we’re serious about making positive contributions to our world. That starts with reducing sugar in our drinks and bringing new and different drinks to people everywhere. It also means continuously working to reduce our environmental impact, creating rewarding careers for our associates, and bringing economic opportunity wherever we operate. In fact, together with our bottling partners, we employ more than 700,000 people around the world. For more information, visit our digital magazine Coca-Cola Journey at www.coca-colacompany.com and follow The Coca-Cola Company on Twitter , Instagram , Facebook and LinkedIn .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005238/en/
The Coca-Cola Company
Investors and Analysts
Tim Leveridge, +1-404-676-7563
or
Media
Scott Leith, +1-404-676-8768
Source: The Coca-Cola Company