Getty Images Qualcomm Inc. CEO Steve Mollenkopf. 
Qualcomm beat street estimates across the board for its first quarter earnings on Wednesday. Its stock remained nearly unchanged in after hours as investors continue to wait for answers on how the company will deal with external issues going forward. 
Here are the most important numbers: Revenue: $6.04 billion vs. $5.93 billion, as expected, according to Thomson Reuters EPS (adjusted): 98 cents per share vs. 91 cents per share, as expected, according to Thomson Reuters 
Qualcomm's operating profit dropped 96 percent year-over-year as Apple and its partners continued to withhold royalty payments. The company noted that it didn't record any license revenues from Apple in the first quarter because of its continued dispute with the iPhone maker. In the first quarter of last year, Qualcomm generated $740 million in royalty fees from Apple-related products. 
Qualcomm's recent financial results have largely been overshadowed by two major events: Broadcom's hostile takeover bid and Apple's litigation over royalty payments. 
Broadcom wants to buy Qualcomm for $105 billion, but the chipmaker has refused the offer and has urged shareholders earlier this month to reject the takeover bid. In December, Broadcom unveiled a slate of 11 director nominees for Qualcomm's board. 
Apple, meanwhile, is claiming that Qualcomm charges unfairly high royalties for its patented technologies, and has sued the chipmaker for roughly $1 billion. The complaint has led other Taiwanese partners to withhold royalty payments, further hampering Qualcomm's lucrative licensing business. 
On top of that, some investors have questions about Qualcomm's $39 billion bid to buy NXP, which is still waiting for regulatory approval, and potentially lower chip demand from the Chinese market. 
To address those concerns, Qualcomm said in a recent investor presentation that its adjusted earnings per share for fiscal year 2019 could jump to the range of $6.75 to $7.50 if the royalty dispute settles and the NXP deal goes through. Eugene Kim Technology Reporter for CNBC.com Related Securities