Fremont, Calif. and Chicago, Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Risha Kilaru, a top loan originator who consistently appears on mortgage lending top originator lists, has joined Guaranteed Rate as Vice President of Mortgage Lending in California. Kilaru, who has 11 years of mortgage lending experience, has originated over $700 million in the last three years, with more than $268 million originated in 2017, $219 million in 2016 and $221 million in 2015.
“I am thrilled to join Guaranteed Rate and look forward to working alongside my team within Guaranteed Rate’s POD Model, which will provide me additional time to spend networking with referral partners and building customer relationships,” says Kilaru. “For me, it came down to what Guaranteed Rate offers: great rates, a variety of loan products, flexibility and the company’s massive marketing platform of which I plan to take full advantage.”
Kilaru received a Bachelor’s degree in Finance and Fashion Design while studying in India. She works closely with Janyaa, an organization with a mission to improve the lives of under-privileged rural children in India and which helps promote STEM education in developing countries with a laboratory-in-a-box model to promote hands-on education.
Risha already lives the Guaranteed Rate core value of living a healthy, balanced and fun lifestyle. She’s an avid Bollywood movie fan, loves to socialize and travels extensively with her two teenaged sons and husband, with whom she visited every continent last year.
“We are ecstatic to have Risha on our team and look forward to seeing exponential growth in her business as she embraces the unique value proposition Guaranteed Rate offers to loan originators,” says James Elliott, Executive Vice President of National Retail Production – West. “With many years of extraordinary success, extensive industry knowledge and an unlimited supply of contagious positive energy, Risha will be a tremendous asset to Guaranteed Rate and our customers.”
About Guaranteed Rate
Guaranteed Rate is one of the largest retail mortgage lenders in the United States. Headquartered in Chicago, the company has approximately 195 offices across the U.S. and Washington, D.C., and is licensed in all 50 states. Since its founding in 2000, Guaranteed Rate has helped hundreds of thousands of homeowners with home purchase loans and refinances and funded nearly $23 billion in loans in 2016 alone. The company has become the Home Purchase Experts® by introducing the world's first Digital Mortgage technology and offering low rate, low fee mortgages through an easy-to-understand process and unparalleled customer service. Guaranteed Rate won an American Business Award for its Digital Mortgage technology in 2016, ranked No. 1 in Scotsman Guide's Top Mortgage Lenders 2016, was chosen as Top Lender 2016 and 2017 by Chicago Agent magazine, made the Chicago Tribune's Top Workplaces list seven of the past eight years, and was named Best Overall Online Lender and Best Lender for FHA Refinance by NerdWallet in 2018. Visit rate.com for more information.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/dc4e063a-d556-4564-8a83-ef9b23217bb9
Grace Bondy Guaranteed Rate (773) 435-7883 grace.bondy@rate.com
Source: Guaranteed Rate