--Board Member Rex Bright Assumes Interim CEO Role--
SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- San Diego-based Clarify Medical, the developer and marketer of Clarify Medical™ Home Light Therapy System, announced today that its CEO Jim Sweeney has resigned for health reasons. Rex Bright, a current Board member of Clarify Medical, has agreed to serve as interim President and CEO until the company is prepared to announce a permanent Chief Executive appointment.
Executive Chairman David Hale said, “Under Jim’s leadership, the Company has made significant strides, including the development, FDA clearance and commercial launch of the Clarify Medical™ Home Light Therapy system for the treatment of psoriasis, vitiligo and other skin conditions. We appreciate his contributions to the development of the Company and wish him the best success and health in the future.”
“Rex Bright is an ideal person to assume the interim role,” said Hale. “Rex’s background includes over 20 years as a CEO with a focus on dermatology. He led Johnson & Johnson’s dermatology division, served as president of Allergan Skincare and recently co-founded and served as President & CEO of SkinMedica, Inc., which was acquired by Allergan in 2012.”
“As a Clarify board member, I have seen the significant progress of the Company, the strong management team and the clinical results of the Home Light Therapy System in the treatment of patients with psoriasis and vitiligo,” commented Rex Bright. “I look forward to finalizing our Series 3 investment, recruiting a permanent CEO and working with the Clarify team, to move forward with the successful commercialization of the Home Light Therapy System.”
Clarify Medical is a private San Diego-based medical device company focused on developing innovative technology, products and services that improve care for people with chronic skin conditions. Its Clarify Home Light Therapy System is now available nationally in the US. Learn more at www.clarifymed.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006486/en/
for Clarify Medical
Paul Williams, 310-569-0023
paul@medialinecommunications.com
Source: Clarify Medical