NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- HSBC USA announced that Chris Rosello recently joined as US Head of Public Affairs. Based in Washington, DC, Rosello will lead the bank's public policy activities and government relations in the United States, and be responsible for advocating on behalf of HSBC with US policy makers and elected officials.
“We are thrilled to have Chris as part of the HSBC team,” said Mark Steffensen, General Counsel, HSBC USA, to whom Rosello will report. “Chris brings great respect from his nearly two decades working in and around the federal government, and his experience in the legislative and executive branches as well as in the banking industry will serve us well as we engage Congress and the regulatory community.”
Rosello most recently was senior vice president of federal government affairs at Wells Fargo. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Treasury, and Senior Advisor for Congressional Affairs at FinCEN. On Capitol Hill, he was staff for the House Financial Services Committee, and for two members of the New York congressional delegation on both sides of the aisle.
“I'm honored to join HSBC, which for more than 150 years has served as a commercial bridge between the US and the world,” said Rosello. “US companies doing business abroad are among HSBC’s most important clients, and I look forward to working with US regulators and government agencies to truly connect the US to the global economy to the benefit of American businesses, investors, consumers and the US financial markets.”
Notes to editors
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. is the holding company for HSBC Holdings plc's operations in the United States. The company’s businesses serve customers in the following key areas: retail banking and wealth management, commercial banking, private banking, and global banking and markets.
HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of the HSBC Group, is headquartered in London. The Group serves customers worldwide from around 3,900 offices in 67 countries and territories in Europe, Asia, North and Latin America, and the Middle East and North Africa. With assets of US$2,492bn at 30 June 2017, HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking and financial services organizations.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005238/en/
Media enquiries:
HSBC USA
Rob Sherman, +1 212-525-6901
robert.a.sherman@us.hsbc.com
Source: HSBC North America Holdings Inc.