KOCHI, India, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- In May 2016 Valorem, a digital and cloud solutions company based in Kansas City, Missouri, acquired leading interactive experience firm, IdentityMine and its Kochi, India subsidiary. Under Valorem leadership, the India team has quickly doubled in size with digital engineering, development and design specialists. In order to meet growing market demand, Valorem is moving into a new state-of-the-art facility in SmartCity Kochi (SCK), the newest business IT park in India. With over 8.8 million sq. ft. of buildable space and next-wave ICT infrastructure, the new location adds Valorem to the SmartCity global network alongside many Fortune 500s. SCK provides many perks that are making it a growing destination for others in the IT industry and turning Kochi into the commercial capital of Kerala.
Valorem operations have begun in the new 28k sq. ft. space with an official inauguration and visit from the Valorem Leadership team scheduled in January. Upon opening Valorem's India team will almost double in size with the addition of a large group of fresh graduates hired at recent recruiting events. In the interest of providing fast, scalable and around-the-clock, cloud technology solutions for clients, Valorem has an aggressive growth plan over the next 3 years to fill their SmartCity workplace with the best and brightest talent in the area.
2018 holds expansion opportunities for Valorem in the US as well. With a rapidly growing global employee footprint, Valorem supports a truly modern workplace where digitally connected employees can access business information and collaborate with colleagues and clients from anywhere. Flourishing tech communities in major US metropolitan cities like St. Louis, MO and Seattle, WA have led to dense areas of Valorem's remote resources and will likely lead to additional US locations in the coming year.
About SmartCity
About Valorem
Contact: marketing@valorem.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-based-microsoft-partner-valorem-expands-global-delivery-in-smartcity-kochi-with-more-growth-in-sight-300576490.html
SOURCE Valorem