DISCO deepens its bench of senior executives to prepare for global expansion in 2018
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CS Disco Inc., the legal technology company that makes the market-leading SaaS ediscovery solution DISCO, today appointed Andrew Shimek as Chief Revenue Officer (CRO) and Michael Lafair as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and promoted Neil Etheridge to Chief Marketing Officer (CMO).
This expansion of DISCO’s leadership team follows a year of tremendous growth, including more than 85% growth in headcount and the launch of field sales and services teams in all major U.S. markets. More and more, law firms and corporate legal departments have jettisoned their legacy platforms and adopted DISCO as their firm-wide or company-wide ediscovery solution. DISCO is now the acknowledged market leader in next-generation cloud ediscovery.
"We are thrilled to bring Andrew’s and Michael’s leadership to DISCO," said founder and CEO Kiwi Camara. "Both share our core values – what we call the Inventor’s Spirit – and both are mature, effective leaders with remarkable track records throughout their careers to prove it. In addition, I couldn’t be more proud of Neil’s accomplishments with us. When we searched for a CMO, we concluded the best candidate was already here."
Shimek, DISCO’s new CRO, is a lawyer and a 20-year industry veteran who held successive leadership roles at LexisNexis and Epiq, ending as President of Legal Services and Electronic Discovery at Epiq. At DISCO, Shimek’s focus will be growing revenue worldwide. “I am thrilled to be here to help build out the offering and team as we expand our market footprint around the world and become the dominant player in ediscovery,” said Shimek. “When I met the DISCO team and saw a clear passion and commitment to bring product differentiation back to ediscovery, the pull was too great to resist.”
Lafair, DISCO’s new CFO, previously served as the Chief Financial Officer of Offers.com and was instrumental in executing the sale of Offers.com to Ziff Davis, LLC in 2015. After the acquisition, Lafair served as Global Head of Finance, Ziff Davis B2B. Prior to Offers.com , Lafair served as Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel of All Web Leads, Inc. and Vice President and General Counsel of Interlogix, Inc. and practiced corporate law at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP. With the addition of Shimek and Lafair, two thirds of the DISCO executive team are former practicing lawyers.
“Michael is both a lawyer and a highly regarded financial executive. We are delighted he will be joining DISCO,” said Camara. “He has key experiences and a unique skill set in moving companies forward from a financial and investment standpoint, and we look forward to seeing his contribution to DISCO.” Lafair said, “I am pleased to join Kiwi and his team. I was impressed by DISCO’s innovative and transformative approach to using technology to improve the practice of law. I look forward to helping this talented team continue its success.”
Etheridge, assuming the role of CMO, has been with DISCO since 2015 and has been instrumental in the growth of the company as Vice President of Marketing. In his new position, he will continue to lead DISCO’s go-to-market strategy, brand strategy, lead generation, product marketing, communications, and more – both domestically and internationally. “Neil is the kind of transformative visionary who helps businesses such as ours quickly position themselves for go-to-market success,” said Camara. “He has a track record of accomplishments in coordinating internal and external resources and stakeholders to capture and grow market share. We would not be where we are today without him.”
For more information, or to learn more about DISCO contact us today.
About DISCO
As the leading provider of Software as a Service solutions developed by and for lawyers and legal professionals, DISCO partners with law firms and corporate legal departments to improve legal outcomes by building and deploying great legal technology. More than 400 law firms, including over 75 of the AmLaw 200, have embraced Disco as their first choice for innovative technologies that help great lawyers and their teams secure justice and win cases.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005831/en/
DISCO
Keith Schrodt, 713-231-9100
media@csdisco.com
Source: CS Disco Inc.