VANCOUVER, British Columbia--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sierra Wireless (NASDAQ: SWIR) (TSX: SW) will release financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2017, after market close on Thursday, February 8, 2018.
Sierra Wireless President and CEO, Jason Cohenour, and CFO, David McLennan, will host a conference call and webcast with analysts and investors to review the results at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time the same day. A live slide presentation will be available for viewing during the call from the link provided below.
Conference call
To participate in this conference call, please dial the following number approximately 10 minutes prior to the starting time:
Toll-free (Canada and US): 1-877-201-0168
Alternate number: 1-647-788-4901
Conference ID: 5895407
Webcast
A webcast presentation will also be available for viewing in conjunction with the conference call. To access the webcast, please visit: http://event.on24.com/r.htm?e=1555069&s=1&k=387A1BA17101DAF00053186E3990FD79 .
For those unable to listen live, the webcast will remain available at the above link for one year following the call.
About Sierra Wireless
Sierra Wireless (NASDAQ: SWIR) (TSX: SW) is an IoT pioneer, empowering businesses and industries to transform and thrive in the connected economy. Customers Start with Sierra because we offer a device to cloud solution, comprised of embedded and networking solutions seamlessly integrated with our secure cloud and connectivity services. OEMs and enterprises worldwide rely on our expertise in delivering fully integrated solutions to reduce complexity, turn data into intelligence and get their connected products and services to market faster. Sierra Wireless has approximately 1,400 employees globally and operates R&D centers in North America, Europe and Asia. For more information, visit www.sierrawireless.com .
Connect with Sierra Wireless on the IoT Blog at http://www.sierrawireless.com/iot-blog , on Twitter at @SierraWireless, on LinkedIn at http://www.linkedin.com/company/sierra-wireless and on YouTube at http://www.youtube.com/SierraWireless .
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, plans and timing for the introduction or enhancement of our services and products, statements about future market conditions, supply conditions, channel and end customer demand conditions, revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, profits, and other expectations, intentions, and plans contained in this press release that are not historical fact. Our expectations regarding future revenues and earnings depend in part upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture, and supply products that we do not produce today and that meet defined specifications. When used in this press release, the words "plan", "expect", "believe", and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current expectations. They are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in technology and changes in the wireless data communications market. In light of the many risks and uncertainties surrounding the wireless data communications market, you should understand that we cannot assure you that the forward-looking statements contained in this press release will be realized.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005436/en/
Sierra Wireless
Media:
Kim Homeniuk, +1 604-233-8028
pr@sierrawireless.com
or
Investors:
David Climie, +1 604-231 1137
dclimie@sierrawireless.com
Source: Sierra Wireless