Pictures | Tue Jan 16, 2018 | 8:02am EST Editors Choice Pictures 
Reddish glow of lava drifting towards southwest part of Mayon volcano in Camalig town, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Stringer Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Reddish glow of lava drifting towards southwest part of Mayon volcano in Camalig town, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Stringer Close 1 / 24 
Devotees offer prayers before taking a holy bath in the Bagmati River at Pashupatinath Temple during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Kathmandu, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Reuters / Tuesday, January 16, 2018 Devotees offer prayers before taking a holy bath in the Bagmati River at Pashupatinath Temple during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Kathmandu, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Close 2 / 24 
Tracee Ellis Ross reacts after winning the award for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series for black-ish at the NAACP Image Awards. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Tracee Ellis Ross reacts after winning the award for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series for black-ish at the NAACP Image Awards. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Close 3 / 24 
Pope Francis boards for his trip to Chile and Peru at Fiumicino International Airport in Rome. REUTERS/Max Rossi Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Pope Francis boards for his trip to Chile and Peru at Fiumicino International Airport in Rome. REUTERS/Max Rossi Close 4 / 24 
Ana Ashury, a mixed-media artist, stores away her artwork on her rooftop in Ramat Gan, a suburb of Tel Aviv, Israel. While she works as a video artist most of her time, Ana has recently started to use her rooftop work space as a workshop for collage... more Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Ana Ashury, a mixed-media artist, stores away her artwork on her rooftop in Ramat Gan, a suburb of Tel Aviv, Israel. While she works as a video artist most of her time, Ana has recently started to use her rooftop work space as a workshop for collage creations. REUTERS/Corinna Kern Close 5 / 24 
Protesters shout slogans outside the parliament building during a demonstration against planned government reforms that will restrict workers rights to strike in Athens, Greece. REUTERS/Costas Baltas Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Protesters shout slogans outside the parliament building during a demonstration against planned government reforms that will restrict workers rights to strike in Athens, Greece. REUTERS/Costas Baltas Close 6 / 24 
Palestinian children play at their family's house in Al-Shati refugee camp in Gaza City. REUTERS/Mohammed Salem Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Palestinian children play at their family's house in Al-Shati refugee camp in Gaza City. REUTERS/Mohammed Salem Close 7 / 24 
Simona Halep of Romania serves against Destanee Aiava of Australia at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Thomas Peter Reuters / Tuesday, January 16, 2018 Simona Halep of Romania serves against Destanee Aiava of Australia at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Thomas Peter Close 8 / 24 
A military policeman is silhouetted against burning tires set alight by opposition supporters during a protest against the re-election of Honduras' President Juan Orlando Hernandez, outside the Soto Cano Air Base in Comayagua, Honduras.... more Reuters / Sunday, January 14, 2018 A military policeman is silhouetted against burning tires set alight by opposition supporters during a protest against the re-election of Honduras' President Juan Orlando Hernandez, outside the Soto Cano Air Base in Comayagua, Honduras. REUTERS/Jorge Cabrera Close 9 / 24 
View of a bridge under construction that collapsed leaving dead and injured workers in Chirajara near Bogota, Colombia. REUTERS/Jaime Saldarriaga Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 View of a bridge under construction that collapsed leaving dead and injured workers in Chirajara near Bogota, Colombia. REUTERS/Jaime Saldarriaga Close 10 / 24 
Student artist Lea Porre from Central St. Martins college, demonstrates her work, "101 Archeology" at the Tate Exchange programme at Tate Modern in London. REUTERS/Peter Nicholls Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Student artist Lea Porre from Central St. Martins college, demonstrates her work, "101 Archeology" at the Tate Exchange programme at Tate Modern in London. REUTERS/Peter Nicholls Close 11 / 24 
A member of a rescue team carries a migrant baby after being rescued by Libyan coast guards in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Libya. REUTERS/Hani Amara Reuters / Tuesday, January 16, 2018 A member of a rescue team carries a migrant baby after being rescued by Libyan coast guards in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Libya. REUTERS/Hani Amara Close 12 / 24 
Police officers detain a protester during a march against social inequality prior to the arrival of Pope Francis in Concepcion, Chile. REUTERS/Jose Luis Saavedra Reuters / Tuesday, January 16, 2018 Police officers detain a protester during a march against social inequality prior to the arrival of Pope Francis in Concepcion, Chile. REUTERS/Jose Luis Saavedra Close 13 / 24 
A car dangles off the second floor of a building after speeding into a median and going airborne, according to local media, in Santa Ana, California. OCFA PIO/via REUTERS Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 A car dangles off the second floor of a building after speeding into a median and going airborne, according to local media, in Santa Ana, California. OCFA PIO/via REUTERS Close 
Manchester United's Juan Mata shoots wide against Stoke City. REUTERS/Andrew Yates Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Manchester United's Juan Mata shoots wide against Stoke City. REUTERS/Andrew Yates Close 15 / 24 
Rodrigo Huilpang, 34, a Mapuche indigenous, poses for a photo at Santiago Linconir village, near where Pope Francis will hold a mass in Chile's Araucania region. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido Reuters / Tuesday, January 16, 2018 Rodrigo Huilpang, 34, a Mapuche indigenous, poses for a photo at Santiago Linconir village, near where Pope Francis will hold a mass in Chile's Araucania region. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido Close 16 / 24 
An overcrowded train leaves Tongi rail station after the final prayer of "Bishwa Ijtema", the world congregation of Muslims, on the banks of the Turag river in Tongi near Dhaka, Bangladesh. REUTERS/Mohammad Ponir Hossain Reuters / Sunday, January 14, 2018 An overcrowded train leaves Tongi rail station after the final prayer of "Bishwa Ijtema", the world congregation of Muslims, on the banks of the Turag river in Tongi near Dhaka, Bangladesh. REUTERS/Mohammad Ponir Hossain Close 
Children are seen inside the first Saudi Arabia cinema in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. REUTERS/Reem Baeshen Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 Children are seen inside the first Saudi Arabia cinema in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. REUTERS/Reem Baeshen Close 18 / 24 
People protest against President Trump's recent comments and tough stand on immigration near the Southern Boulevard bridge to Palm Beach near Mar-a-Lago, Florida. REUTERS/Andrew Innerarity Reuters / Monday, January 15, 2018 People protest against President Trump's recent comments and tough stand on immigration near the Southern Boulevard bridge to Palm Beach near Mar-a-Lago, Florida. REUTERS/Andrew Innerarity Clo