DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE:JEC) is expected to release its first quarter 2018 earnings results prior to market open on Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2018, and plans to host a conference call at 10 A.M. ET, during which management will make a brief presentation focusing on the company’s results and operating trends.
Interested parties can listen to the conference call and view accompanying slides on the internet at www.jacobs.com .
About Jacobs Engineering Group
Jacobs leads the global professional services sector delivering solutions for a more connected, sustainable world. With $15 billion in combined revenue and a talent force more than 74,000 strong, Jacobs provides a full spectrum of services including scientific, technical, professional and construction- and program-management for business, industrial, commercial, government and infrastructure sectors. For more information, visit www.jacobs.com .
Statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. We base these forward-looking statements on management’s current estimates and expectations as well as currently available competitive, financial and economic data. Forward-looking statements, however, are inherently uncertain. There are a variety of factors that could cause business results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2017, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1 - Business, 1A - Risk Factors, 3 - Legal Proceedings, and 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006624/en/
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
Investors
Jonathan Doros, 817-239-3457
jonathan.doros@jacobs.com
or
Media
Salim Rahimi, 214-583-8428
salim.rahimi@jacobs.com
Source: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.