WASHINGTON, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The National Capital Bank of Washington (NCB) announced today that Patricia M. (Tricia) Ostrander has been appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer.
Ostrander, a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, joins NCB's outstanding executive management team with responsibility for human resources and compliance. With over 28 years of banking experience in the Washington, D.C. Metro market, she has held a number of senior level management positions. Most recently she founded Ostrander Management Consulting, LLC, and provided HR and organizational development services for community banks. Ostrander previously spent 20 years as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer at Virginia Commerce Bank, until its merger with United Bank in early 2014.
Ostrander has a successful track record of strategic and tactical leadership in executing and managing major corporate initiatives, while ensuring effective compliance and governance across company business lines. Ostrander developed and supported programs for audit/compliance strategies, including a formal Code of Conduct program to prevent conflicts of interest; supported the creation of new enhanced due diligence reviews of key bank services for regulatory reporting requirements; established an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program; collaborated with key members of senior management to develop employee engagement, management trainee and customer service training platforms, and implemented and facilitated leadership and personal effectiveness training.
"I worked with Tricia for many years and can personally attest to her collaborative leadership, strong planning and organizational skills and analytical style. Her business acumen and expertise in human resources and compliance management make her a key addition to our executive management team," said Randy Anderson, President and CEO of National Capital Bank.
The National Capital Bank of Washington was founded in 1889 and is Washington's Oldest Bank. NCB is headquartered on Capitol Hill with a second branch located in Friendship Heights, as well as residential mortgage and commercial lending offices and a wealth management services division. From personal checking accounts and sophisticated treasury management solutions for businesses, to robust online and mobile banking and remote deposit capture, merchant processing and top-rated personal service, NCB is well-positioned to serve the banking needs of those in our community. For more information about NCB, visit www.nationalcapitalbank.com . The Bank trades under the symbol NACB.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-national-capital-bank-of-washington-appoints-tricia-ostrander-as-executive-vice-president-300578451.html
SOURCE The National Capital Bank of Washington