WOBURN, Mass., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- LoyaltyExpress, a provider of marketing automation and cloud-based CRM solutions for mortgage companies and banks, today announced the acquisition of Lending Manager, a leading point-of-sale and website creator for lenders of all sizes. The acquisition and integration of both companies' technologies will help automate lead flow and associated marketing for all aspects of the loan process. The combined company services 115 lenders with over 15,000 loan officers across all platforms.
"The ever-increasing expectation of consumers during the lending process led us to this merger," said Wayne Steagall, Founder of Lending Manager. "We are thrilled to partner with LoyaltyExpress. We look forward extending our solutions backed with the power of the LoyaltyExpress creative and fulfillment teams."
"After extensive due diligence and market research, it became immediately apparent that Lending Manager delivers incredibly efficient and automated lead capture systems and attractive corporate and loan officer websites," said Jeff Doyle, Chief Executive Officer of LoyaltyExpress. "Wayne and his team have developed integrations with over 75 CRM, loan origination, lead management, and point-of-sale systems which is a growing requirement of any solution in the mortgage industry. We look forward to integrating CustomerManager with Lending Manager."
About LoyaltyExpress
LoyaltyExpress simplifies CRM and marketing automation for banks and mortgage companies, including one of the top three retail lenders in the nation. Its flagship solution, CustomerManager, is an enterprise-wide, Software-as-a-Service platform that combines lead management, email and direct mail campaigns with a 360-degree view of each loan officer's customers, partners and prospects. The MarketingCentral service delivers a web-based, sales collateral store powered by custom content creation and integrated print fulfillment. LoyaltyExpress eliminates the need to share sensitive customer data with multiple vendors and has a team of world-class marketing and branding experts with extensive experience in the mortgage industry. LoyaltyExpress is backed by New Capital Partners. For more information, visit www.loyaltyexpress.com .
About Lending Manager
Lending Manager builds custom corporate and loan officer websites for lenders of all sizes. The Company delivers world-class flexible point-of-sale solutions with over 75 integrations with the leading mortgage technology providers. Lending Manager is based in Newark, Delaware. For more information, visit www.lendingmanager.com .
About New Capital Partners
New Capital Partners is focused on building great companies by investing in high-growth businesses and partnering with management teams in the healthcare, financial services, and business services industries. New Capital Partners is headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama and has an office in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.newcapitalpartners.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/loyaltyexpress-acquires-lending-manager-300579100.html
SOURCE LoyaltyExpress