SOUTHFIELD, Mich., Stefanini, a global $1B IT provider, announced the acquisition of Gauge, one of the largest user experience and performance consultancies in Brazil. With this announcement, the company extends its operations in digital media, user experience and data.
The goal of Stefanini, which has been investing significantly in digital transformation, is to continue investing in innovation to connect the entire user experience through digital tools--increasing the generation of results and improving experiences with products and processes.
Gauge—which serves clients such as Vivo, Itaú, Nike, Embraer, Ambev and Abbott—will act independently but with the capacity to integrate its entire portfolio of services for Stefanini and its affiliates. Jointly, both companies can offer solutions focused on obtaining results for their clients.
"With the synergy that exists between Gauge and Stefanini, we want to achieve results that are higher than expected and overcome goals, from insight generation, business strategy definition, user experience creation, technology implementation and, consequently, the evolution of the project in all areas. If the client needs media, for example, we can offer it here. Our main goal is to provide all the tools so our customers can make fast and accurate decisions, from mapping information about the journey of their target audience to achieving the desired results," says Marco Stefanini, founder and global CEO of Stefanini.
The acquisition will expand user experience, media and performance services, management and implementation of analytics tools, such as Google and Adobe. "We are confident in the success of this partnership, especially because we believe in the strength of Stefanini to expand our operations in Brazil and in other countries. Stefanini has established itself as a global leader in the development of digital strategies, enabling its customers to promote the transformations required for a better user experience, which is also one of Gauge's differentiators. Stefanini’s acquisition of Gauge was a significant, mutual decision for both parties,” said Dante Calligaris, CEO of Gauge.
"By analyzing data and understanding consumers’ wants and needs, including face-to-face interviews, it is possible to directly influence our clients' results. We use customized and interactive dashboards for real-time data presentation, which allows faster and more objective decision-making. With this, we have been able to guarantee greater efficiency in each business area, with less operational effort and greater availability of data in an agile way," said Mr. Calligaris.
"Gauge's competencies complement our portfolio and are part of our philosophy of prioritizing the business objectives of our customers with a focus on the digital world," said Mr. Stefanini.
About Stefanini:
Stefanini ( www.stefanini.com ) is a Brazilian multinational with 30 years of experience in the market, investing in a complete innovation ecosystem to meet the main verticals and assist customers in the process of digital transformation. With robust offerings aligned with market trends such as automation, cloud, Internet of Things (IoT) and user experience (UX), the company has been recognized with several awards in the area of innovation.
Today, the company has a broad portfolio of solutions that combine innovative consulting, marketing, mobility, personalized campaigns and artificial intelligence services for traditional solutions such as service desk, field service and outsourcing (BPO).
With a presence in 40 countries, Stefanini was nominated for the third consecutive year as the fifth transnational company more internationalized, according to the Dom Cabral Foundation ranking of 2017.
Editorial Contacts
Carla Ferber
Carla.ferber@stefanini.com
Vanessa Morais
Vanessa.morais@stefanini.com
+1 248 263.8612
Source: Stefanini