CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Antares Capital (“Antares”) announced today it is serving as administrative agent and lead left arranger on a senior secured credit facility to support the acquisition of Perforce Software (“Perforce”) by Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (together with its affiliates, “Clearlake”).
Headquartered in Minneapolis, MN, Perforce is a leading provider of enterprise scale software solutions to technology developers and development operations teams requiring productivity, visibility and scale during all phases of the development lifecycle.
“During this transaction, we valued Antares’ software sector knowledge and their familiarity with Perforce,” said Behdad Eghbali, co-founder and managing partner at Clearlake. “They were flexible and worked closely with us to efficiently execute the financing.”
“As leaders in supporting TMT borrowers, we were pleased to work with Clearlake on their latest investment in Perforce,” said Matthew Fleming, managing director with Antares. “Clearlake’s deep software experience will be invaluable to Perforce as they look to accelerate their growth.”
About Clearlake Capital Group, L.P.
Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. is a leading private investment firm founded in 2006. With a sector-focused approach, the firm seeks to partner with world-class management teams by providing patient, long-term capital to dynamic businesses that can benefit from Clearlake’s operational improvement approach, O.P.S.® The firm’s core target sectors are software and technology-enabled services; industrials and energy; and consumer. Clearlake has managed approximately $6 billion of institutional capital since inception and its senior investment principals have led or co-led over 100 investments. More information is available at www.clearlake.com .
About Antares
Antares Capital is a credit manager and leading provider of financing solutions for middle-market, private equity-backed transactions. Offices are located in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk and Toronto. Antares issued more than $18 billion in financing during 2016, and was named 2017 Lender of the Year by ACG NY and 2015 Dealmakers of the Year by Mergers & Acquisitions. Visit us at www.antares.com or follow Antares Capital on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/antarescapital . Antares Capital is a subsidiary of Antares Holdings LP.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005931/en/
Antares Capital
Carol Ann Wharton, 475-266-8053
carolann.wharton@antares.com
Source: Antares Capital