AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Austin-based litigation boutique Weisbart Springer Hayes LLP has promoted attorneys Mia A. Storm and Matt C. Wood to partner effective January 1, 2018.
"These two accomplished attorneys have excelled in their fields of practice, and their high-quality work reflects the values we embrace at Weisbart Springer Hayes," said co-founding partner Sherrard "Butch" Hayes. "They certainly have earned this promotion."
Ms. Storm represents clients involved in complex business disputes involving contracts, partnerships, deceptive trade practices, trade secret misappropriation, employment, fiduciary relationships, real estate, construction liability, and complex family law and estate litigation. In addition, Ms. Storm handles class action litigation in both state and federal court. She was named to the 2017 Texas Rising Stars list by Thomson Reuters for her work in business litigation and is a graduate of The University of Texas School of Law.
To learn more about Ms. Storm, visit http://www.wshllp.com/attorneys/mia-storm/
Selected to the Texas Rising Stars list each year since 2015, Mr. Wood represents Fortune 500 companies, developers, small businesses, and individuals in business litigation and complex appellate matters. He handles disputes involving employment matters, real estate, intellectual property, and business contracts. In addition to his Texas Rising Stars honors, he was the 2017 and 2015 recipient of the Judge Suzanne Covington Pro Bono Service Award from Volunteer Legal Services in Austin. Mr. Wood earned his law degree, with high honors, from The University of Texas School of Law.
To learn more about Mr. Wood, visit http://www.wshllp.com/attorneys/matt-c-wood/
Weisbart Springer Hayes LLP focuses on high-stakes business, technology, employment, and aviation litigation in Texas and across the nation. Based on a philosophy of personal service and a practice of efficient management, the firm represents both plaintiffs and defendants in a wide range of complex legal disputes. More information is available on the firm's website at http://www.wshllp.com .
Media Contact:
Sophia Reza
800-559-4534
sophia@androvett.com
 releases/weisbart-springer-hayes-llp-promotes-attorneys-to-partner-300583381.html
SOURCE Weisbart Springer Hayes LLP