BOCA RATON, Fla., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. is pleased to announce the acquisition of Fifth Avenue Healthcare Services, headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma. For over 20 years, Fifth Avenue has curated relationships with various networks, health plans, hospitals, surgery centers, state/federal agencies, and medical malpractice insurance carriers to get the lowest rates and best plans to their clients. Seeman Holtz continues to acquire specialty commercial and professional liability agencies with specific expertise to enhance their portfolio of companies. This acquisition will strengthen Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty's foothold in the Midwest.
Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. continues to target high-quality independent agencies for geographic expansion and continued growth throughout the United States. With the addition of Fifth Avenue Healthcare Services, Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. will continue to reach new and current clients by helping them protect their most important valuables with not only the right insurance but with the right service for each client.
SHP&C offers:
Homeowner's Policy Automobile Insurance Renter's Policy Private Client Umbrella Coverage Commercial and Employee Coverage Personal Liability Coverage Employee Benefits Human Resources Professional Liability Insurance
Marshal Seeman, President of Seeman Holtz Property and Casualty, stated, "Fifth Avenue Healthcare Services is a great company, and we are so happy they chose to merge with Seeman Holtz. We are always looking for high-quality niche insurance agencies to grow with. Fifth Avenue is one of the best we've seen." Eric Holtz, Executive Vice President, and Chief Marketing Officer commented, "We are thrilled to have the Fifth Avenue team on board. They have tremendous expertise in the marketing and delivery of Med Mal insurance, and we look forward to building on their already successful model."
About Our Company: The Seeman Holtz family of companies provides comprehensive financial and insurance advice to clients across the country.
Contact: Eric Holtz
Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty
844.255.6639
eric@seemanholtzpc.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/seeman-holtz-property--casualtys-first-oklahoma-acquisition-adds-specialty-professional-liability-expertise-300589225.html
SOURCE Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc.