RESTON, Va., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Unisys Corporation (NYSE: UIS) announced today it has appointed Andrew Boyd to lead all account management, solution delivery and business growth activities for Unisys clients in the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) and intelligence communities.
As group vice president, defense and intelligence agencies at Unisys Federal, Boyd is responsible for delivery of solutions including digital workplace services, application modernization, cybersecurity and data center and infrastructure services for Unisys clients. He reports to Venkatapathi "PV" Puvvada, president of Unisys Federal.
Boyd joins Unisys from McIntire Solutions, a veteran-owned small business providing industry advisory and technical services to government clients, where he was a founding partner and co-owner since 2016. Prior to that, he worked from 2011 to 2016 as vice president of client accounts at TASC, managing the company's business with agencies such as the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the National Geospatial Agency.
"We are extremely pleased to have Andrew leading our business with clients from DOD and the intelligence community," said Puvvada. "He brings a background of hands-on leadership that will help Unisys grow its business and bring its portfolio of federal and commercial IT solutions to this sector of our client base."
Boyd is a former Air Force officer who served in satellite operations and space-based acquisition and engineering. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering and an M.S. in the Management of Information Technology, both from the University of Virginia.
For more information on Unisys Federal, go to http://www.unisys.com/industries/government/unisys-federal .
About Unisys
Unisys is a global information technology company that specializes in providing industry-focused solutions integrated with leading-edge security to clients in the government, financial services and commercial markets. Unisys offerings include security solutions, advanced data analytics, cloud and infrastructure services, application services and application and server software. For more information, visit www.unisys.com .
Follow Unisys on Twitter and LinkedIn .
RELEASE NO.: 0129/9564
Unisys and other Unisys products and services mentioned herein, as well as their respective logos, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Unisys Corporation. Any other brand or product referenced herein is acknowledged to be a trademark or registered trademark of its respective holder.
UIS-C
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/unisys-appoints-andrew-boyd-to-lead-us-federal-defense-and-intelligence-agency-business-300589023.html
SOURCE Unisys Corporation