CLEVELAND, Tenn., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hardwick Clothes , America's oldest Made in USA tailored clothing maker, has named Ken Hoffman, former CEO of Hart Schaffner Marx, as their new Chairman. The move reunites Hoffman and Hardwick CEO Bruce Bellusci, who spent the better part of three decades together building Hart Schaffner Marx's market presence.
"Ken's presence and reputation within this industry are without parallel. His insight, instincts, and leadership will help Hardwick accelerate along the course we set four years ago, to increase our share of the growing tailored clothing market in a meaningful, sustainable way," lauds Bellusci.
Hoffman takes over the position from Hardwick's owner, W. Allan Jones, who has presided over the company's rebuild and rebirth since purchasing the beloved hometown brand out of bankruptcy in 2014. "First order of business was always saving an American icon, and the American jobs that went along with it: focusing locally, and building outward," notes Jones. "From there, we set out to revamp the design, engineering, and manufacturing processes, to elevate the look and feel of the product, and create garments that could rival the finest Europe has to offer. And remain 100% American Made – all of which we have done."
The 137 year old purveyor of impeccably crafted, American Made blazers, sport coats, suits, and dress pants continues to post strong annual sales growth, with a primary focus on building the business with leading independent menswear shops and select department store partners. The naming of Hoffman as Chairman signifies the next phase in this growth, and cements Hardwick's transition from institutional clothing manufacturer to maker of world class, stylish tailored garments both classic and contemporary.
Coming off of record-setting fall/holiday sales, which saw Hardwick more than double its advance seasonal business, along with a re-launch of the company's brand and website ( hardwick.com ) in October, the heritage Made in USA clothier is poised to take advantage of both a broadened product offering and strengthened relationships with the most trusted retailers in tailored clothing.
These relationships, Hoffman notes, are what will help bring Hardwick's craft-driven approach to a right and ready customer, and are the key to delivering measured, meaningful, sustainable growth in this segment: "The market for tailored clothing has grown significantly in the Social Media age, with an ever evolving and expanding customer base entering the market for the first time," notes Hoffman.
"At the core of this market is a discerning, thoughtful, stylish customer who cares a great deal about materials and make in all facets of his life, from food to furniture, spirits to suits," Bellusci continues. "Our retail partners share in this focused, meaningful, detail-driven approach, and have built their businesses on it for generations on end. There is no better way to attract these new, younger customers, and no better showcase for Hardwick's impeccable product, than through the professionals in these expert, high-touch environments."
"The stage is set for us. And we're dressing the part."
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/menswear-veteran-ken-hoffman-named-new-chairman-of-hardwick-clothes-americas-oldest-made-in-america-tailored-clothing-company-300583528.html
SOURCE Hardwick Clothes