DURHAM, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Tryton Medical, Inc., the leading developer of stents designed to definitively treat bifurcation lesions, today announced that the company has appointed Carl J. St. Bernard as president and chief executive officer.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005406/en/
New CEO and President Carl J. St. Bernard. (Photo: Business Wire)
St. Bernard has a long track record growing new and established businesses in pharmaceuticals, consumer health products, medical devices and diagnostic markets. He joins the company from Johnson & Johnson Vision (formerly Abbott Medical Optics) where he held the role of vice president, leading the company’s Americas Surgery business unit. Prior to Johnson & Johnson Vision, St. Bernard served as vice president, North American Marketing and Sales for LifeCell and vice president at Cordis where he led the commercial operations for the cardiovascular and endovascular businesses in the U.S. St. Bernard has over 30 years of diversified sales, marketing, and general management experience in the life sciences arena.
Tryton co-founder H. Richard Davis has served as interim CEO for the past six months. With the appointment of St. Bernard, Davis will resume his role as COO.
“Carl’s proven sales and marketing success and deep understanding of our customers will serve Tryton well as we continue to commercialize the only FDA-approved stent technology for treating complex bifurcated coronary lesions,” said Jay W. Schmelter, Tryton Medical board member and managing director of RiverVest Venture Partners. “The board would like to thank Richard Davis for his strong leadership during the transition and continued contributions as COO.”
“We are dedicated to creating unique solutions for patients with significant unmet cardiovascular need,” said St. Bernard. “The breakthrough Tryton Stent System has demonstrated excellent clinical results and, as a result, won over a number of loyal customers – nearly 12,000 patients have been treated with the device. Our focus is to expand U.S. patient access while continuing to develop our next generation cardiovascular platform.”
About Tryton Medical
Tryton Medical is the leading developer of novel stent systems for the treatment of bifurcation lesions. The Tryton Side Branch Stent System is available in the United States, received CE Mark and is commercially available throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa. For more information, please visit www.trytonmedical.com and follow the company on Twitter @TrytonMedical1.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005406/en/
Tryton Medical, Inc.
Judy Gonzalez, 919-226-1490
jgonzalez@trytonmedical.com
Source: Tryton Medical, Inc.