LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Premier global nutrition company Herbalife (NYSE:HLF), announced today Rich Libby has joined Herbalife Nutrition as chief information officer, with global responsibility for the design, execution and support of the Company’s technology strategy.
Libby was most recently chief information officer at Shaklee Corporation, where he led their digital transformation and was responsible for all aspects of global technology and infrastructure including the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan. Prior to Shaklee, Libby spent seven years as VP of technology at Gap Inc. where he ran a multiyear digital transformational program supporting omni-channel marketing, CRM, and enterprise data services; as well as eleven years with JPMorgan Chase managing customer service platform technologies.
“We are excited to have Rich, a talented and respected leader in the industry, join our team,” said Dave Pezzullo, chief operating officer at Herbalife Nutrition. “Rich is joining a group of noteworthy individuals who collectively strengthen the Company’s capabilities, especially in the digital arena and open more doors to innovation.”
Bringing more than 20 years of experience as a senior technology leader in nutrition, financial services, and retail industries, Libby offers a unique understanding of the relationship distributors have with e-commerce.
“Having been in the direct selling and nutrition industry for more than seven years, I have developed a great understanding for the impact technology has on distributors,” said Rich Libby, chief information officer at Herbalife Nutrition. “I am eager to expand on the technological groundwork already in place.”
Libby will be based at the Company’s LA Live Headquarters in downtown Los Angeles.
About Herbalife Nutrition
Herbalife Nutrition is a global nutrition company whose purpose is to make the world healthier and happier. The Company has been on a mission for nutrition - changing people's lives with great nutrition products & programs - since 1980. Together with our Herbalife Nutrition independent distributors, we are committed to providing solutions to the worldwide problems of poor nutrition and obesity, an aging population, skyrocketing public healthcare costs and a rise in entrepreneurs of all ages. We offer high-quality, science-backed products, most of which are produced in Company-operated facilities, one-on-one coaching with an Herbalife Nutrition independent distributor, and a supportive community approach that inspires customers to embrace a healthier, more active lifestyle.
Our targeted nutrition, weight-management, energy and fitness and personal care products are available exclusively to and through dedicated Herbalife Nutrition distributors in more than 90 countries.
Through its corporate social responsibility efforts, Herbalife Nutrition supports the Herbalife Family Foundation (HFF) and its Casa Herbalife programs to help bring good nutrition to children in need. The Company is also proud to sponsor more than 190 world-class athletes, teams and events around the globe, including Cristiano Ronaldo, the LA Galaxy, and numerous Olympic teams.
The company has over 8,000 employees worldwide, and its shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HLF) with net sales of approximately $4.5 billion in 2016. To learn more, visit Herbalife.com or IAmHerbalife.com .
The company also encourages investors to visit its investor relations website at ir.herbalife.com as financial and other information is updated and new information is posted.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005419/en/
Herbalife Nutrition
Jennifer Butler, 213-745-0420
jenb@herbalife.com
Source: Herbalife Nutrition