Company Founder Jim Keppler Assumes Chairmanship
ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Keppler Speakers Founder Jim Keppler has named Warren Jones as CEO of Keppler Speakers. Keppler will assume the role of Chairman of the company he founded in 1983 and grew into the country’s largest privately-held speakers bureau. In his new role, Jones will oversee all sales, marketing, operations and administration, and will be responsible for accelerating the company’s growth through transformation, innovation and strategic long-term priorities.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005237/en/
Warren Jones, CEO of Keppler Speakers (Photo: Business Wire)
“Warren Jones is a fantastic addition to our team of veteran agents and executives. He is a proven leader with CEO experience who brings a track record of strategic vision while driving both revenue and growth. I’m looking forward to working closely with Warren, continuing my work with our speakers, and exploring new ways to bring added value to our customers,” said Keppler.
Jones’ background in both the technology and entertainment industries includes a successful two-year turnaround as president and CEO of Enterworks, Inc. As a chief marketing officer, he earlier guided transformations of companies ranging in size from $15 million to $200 million.
Jones founded Comedy Hosting LLC, a successful comedy booking agency providing comedy hosts and comedians for corporate clients, and worked earlier as a booking agent for musical and other touring entertainment acts. He also directed client representation for PRO International, an agency managing entertainers, professional athletes and business innovators.
“I’ve always been impressed by the leadership of Keppler Speakers in live event experiences, and I admire the innovation the company has shown at every step of its growth,” said Warren Jones. “I’m eager to work with all the talented people at Keppler to explore exciting new directions for the company.”
A graduate of Syracuse University and the University of Richmond School of Law, Jones began his management career with American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.
About Keppler Speakers
Based in the Washington, D.C. area, Keppler Speakers represents many of the most prestigious and celebrated speakers from the worlds of business, world affairs, politics, entertainment, education, literature, sports and leadership. The company’s expanding customer base includes Fortune 500 companies across a wide swath of industry sectors, national trade associations representing over 75 million members, colleges and universities, performing arts centers and international audiences across the globe.
For more information about Keppler Speakers, go to kepplerspeakers.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005237/en/
Keppler Speakers
Bob Mitchell, 703-516-4000
bmitchell@kepplerspeakers.com
Source: Keppler Speakers