BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Association of Film Commissioners International (AFCI) today announced its 2018 Board of Directors, as well as the latest crop of film commissioners worldwide to earn AFCI Certification.
The 11-member Board includes three new directors: Tomasz Dabrowski of Film Commission Poland, Donne Dawson of State of Hawaii Film Office, and David Shepheard of Vancouver Film Commission.
They join returning Board Chair Kevin Jennings (New Zealand's Film Otago Southland) and other long-standing board members for the 2018 term. Officer elections resulted in the reappointment of First Vice-Chair Nick Maniatis (New Mexico State Film Office), Second Vice-Chair Marijana Stoisits (Vienna Film Commission), Treasurer Karen Carberry Warhola (Maine Film Office), and Secretary Virginia Pearce (Utah Film Commission).
Additional returning board members include Tim Clark (Buffalo Niagara Film Commission), Jeanne Corcoran (Sarasota County Film & Entertainment Office), and Sigmund Elias Holm (Western Norway Film Commission). The board's tenure begins as AFCI completes a top-to-bottom restructuring that started last year with a new leadership team and a renewed focus on industry and government collaboration.
"AFCI's 2018 board has the expertise, relationships and stamina to guide us through a significant turning point for our organization," said AFCI President Rajiv Dalal. "The three new members announced today join an already stellar team ready to work with our industry and government partners to drive economic growth."
Also announced today were the latest AFCI members to earn Certified Film Commissioner (CFC) status by completing the AFCI University Certified Film Commissioner Program.
The following five members from Austria, the United Arab Emirates and the United States have earned AFCI certification:
Jassim Al Nowais, Abu Dhabi Film Commission Ann Griesser, Cine Tirol Jennifer Jzyk, Santa Clarita Film Office Beth Nelson, Savannah Area Film Office George Norfleet, Connecticut Office of Film, TV & Digital Media.
In all, there are currently 50 AFCI Certified Film Commissioners representing film offices from across the globe.
"Certification empowers our members to learn best practices, adhere to international standards and achieve success in today's global marketplace for film and TV production," added Dalal. "It's a significant accomplishment, and we congratulate all of the new and existing AFCI Certified Film Commissioners."
Each certified AFCI member has completed a rigorous curriculum addressing the varied demands facing professional film commissioners. Topics include economic development, marketing, management, location scouting and media production.
About the Association of Film Commissioners International
Founded in 1975, the Association of Film Commissioners International (AFCI) is the professional organization for film commissioners worldwide. It represents more than 300 city, county, state, regional, provincial and national film commission members on six continents. AFCI empowers its members by sharing best practices, providing workforce development training and strengthening ties to policy makers and the production industry. For more information, visit AFCI.org .
Contact:
Erik Deutsch
(323) 851-2455
erik.deutsch[at]afci[dot]org
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/afci-announces-2018-board-of-directors-and-newly-certified-film-commissioners-300588528.html
SOURCE Association of Film Commissioners International (AFCI)