ATLANTA, Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Sharecare, the digital health company helping people manage all their health in one place, today announced it has named Ami Patel as the company’s chief legal and compliance officer. Relocating to Sharecare’s headquarters in Atlanta from San Francisco, Patel is responsible for the legal affairs of the entire company globally.
"We are excited to have Ami join our management team, as she brings a valuable set of legal experience and leadership skills that will be an asset to us as we expand and advance our offerings with health plans, employers, providers and most importantly, our users," said Justin Ferrero, president of Sharecare.
Patel joins Sharecare from McKesson Corporation, where she spent more than 16 years, most recently serving as assistant general counsel for the organization’s Corporate IT and Technology interests. In this role, she was an adviser to the CIO/CTO and chief information security officer, and worked cross-functionally with client stakeholders globally to provide legal counsel and transactional support to various organizations. Patel also played a major role in McKesson’s largest acquisition – Celesio AG – and served as special legal advisor to that division’s CIO and European IT leadership team. Earlier in her career, Patel was general counsel and vice president of the Sterling Hotel Management Group, LLC, in St. Augustine, Florida; an attorney with King and Spalding in Atlanta; and served as a law clerk for Judge Stacey W. Cotton in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, N.D. Georgia.
About Sharecare
Sharecare is the digital health company that helps people manage all their health in one place. The Sharecare platform provides each person – no matter where they are in their health journey – with a comprehensive and personalized health profile, where they can dynamically and easily connect to the information, evidence-based programs and health professionals they need to live their healthiest, happiest and most productive life. In addition to providing individual consumers with direct access to award-winning and innovative frictionless technologies, scientifically-validated clinical protocols and best-in-class coaching tools, Sharecare also helps providers, employers and health plans effectively scale outcomes-based health and wellness solutions across their entire populations. To learn more, visit www.sharecare.com .
Follow us on: Twitter Facebook Google+ Instagram LinkedIn
Media Contact:
Kirsten McCrary
kmccrary@sharecare.com
404.389.4033
Source: Sharecare