0 COMMENTS Sign up: With one click, get this newsletter delivered to your inbox .
The end of the holiday sales season means the logistics challenges for retailers are picking up again —in reverse. Retailers and distribution operators are bracing for a likely record year for returns following a strong holiday shopping period, and WSJ Logistics Report’s Erica E. Phillips writes they’re looking for new strategies to cope with a profit-crushing, time-consuming reality of retail sales . Traditional and online retailers have expanded the locations and routes consumers can use to return merchandise, from in-store kiosks and lockers to the mall concierge, grocery stores, parcel shipping locations and at-home pickup. They’re addressing a critical fault line between physical stores and online sales, and one where brick-and-mortar sites may have an edge. Experts say nearly a third of goods bought online are returned, and AlixPartners says returns shipped through distribution centers can cost twice as much to handle as goods brought back to stores. For consumers, however, returning goods can be almost as important as buying them in the first place.
China is expanding its role in ship finance to match its moves toward market power on the seas. The country’s banks poured $20 billion into ship financing this year, some 33% more than they invested in 2016, the WSJ’s Costas Paris and Joanne Chiu report. The growing financing flow highlights China’s ambition to become the world’s dominant maritime player as European banks pull back their investments. European banks like Norway’s DNB, Sweden’s Nordea and France’s BNP Paribas still hold big shipping portfolios, but research firm Marine Money estimates Chinese financiers now account for up to a quarter of the world’s $200 billion ship-financing sector. China’s growing role may help reshape parts of the shipping business. Experts say some shipping companies could relocate to Asia to build closer ties to Chinese lenders. And the country’s banks are quicker than their European counterparts to recover ships if payments are missed.
China’s most acquisitive auto maker has its eyes on the global truck market. Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., which owns Volvo Cars, is buying a stake in Swedish truck and bus maker Volvo AB, the WSJ’s Trefor Moss reports, stepping up its moves to become a global player. The 8.2% equity stake takes Geely closer to creating a full automotive supply chain in China and around the world that runs from mass-market cars to commercial vehicles. It also gives the company a bigger role in heavy-duty trucks as new technology brings electric power and autonomous driving tools to the field. The scale and growth in China’s trucking market could give Geely and Volvo AB, which sells commercial trucks under the Volvo and Mack brands, a big say in how that truck technology develops. China’s commercial-vehicle sector grew 15% in the first 11 months of this year. The company is the No. 3 heavy-duty truck seller in North America, says ACT Research, behind Daimler AG and Paccar.
E-COMMERCE The Port of Shanghai. Photo: Bloomberg News Nike Inc. is having a hard time delivering stronger profits while it delivers more goods directly to consumers. The company’s profits tumbled 9% despite a 5% gain in revenue in a quarter marked by upheaval in sportswear sales channels. The WSJ’s Sara Germano reports Nike’s results highlight the challenges suppliers face as they look beyond faltering traditional retail outlets in a business that’s being transformed by e-commerce. With some big chains now liquidated, Nike is narrowing its focus to just 40 of its 30,000 accounts while trying to increase its own online sales and launching initiatives such as deals with fashion startup Stitch Fix. Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. Such efforts make it difficult for Nike to control pricing for its brands, however. And the new paths to reach customers and deliver the goods make the company’s distribution channels more complicated, and likely more costly, than ever.
Dubai billionaire Mohamed Alabbar is making a big bet he can succeed where countless retailers have stumbled. With his online sales startup firm Noon, the risk-taking real estate tycoon is trying to create the infrastructure in the Middle East to compete with Amazon as the U.S. company and other e-commerce giants are investing heavily there. The operators are trying to capitalize on a market in the early stages of an online shopping boom , the WSJ’s Nicolas Parasie reports, and the potential in a region with more than 300 million residents, rising disposable incomes and an increasingly tech-savvy youth population. The prospects led Amazon last year to acquire online retailer Souq.com and expand the marketplace’s sales efforts. Mr. Alabbar’s business has been slow to build, however, and Noon along with other competitors face logistics challenges in shipping consumer goods across borders. The bet is that big growth in sales will make up for the high costs of getting into the market.
QUOTABLE
‘ This is the year that returns are finally getting their due. ’
—David Sobie, CEO of Happy Returns, which has set “returns bars” at shopping malls for retailers.
Number of the Day 4.9% Increase in U.S. retail sales from Nov. 1 through Christmas Eve, compared with 3.7% the year before, according to Mastercard SpendingPulse .
IN OTHER NEWS CSX Corp. dropped “acting” from Jim Foote’s chief executive title . (WSJ)
Industrial land prices jumped in 2017 on strong demand for warehouses and a slipping supply of viable sites , says CBRE Group Inc. (WSJ)
South Korea is holding a Hong Kong-registered ship suspected of transferring oil to a North Korean vessel at sea . (WSJ)
Demand for long-lasting factory goods in the U.S. rose 1.3% in November but a measure of business investment slipped 0.1%. (WSJ)
Oil prices ended 2017 above $60 a barrel, reaching the highest level in two and a half years. (WSJ)
U.S. consumer spending rose in November and the personal saving rate fell to the lowest level in a decade. (WSJ)
A measure of U.S. consumer confidence slipped in December for the second straight month . (WSJ)
Purchases of new single-family homes jumped 17.5% in November to the highest level in more than a decade. (WSJ)
Inflation in Japan picked up slightly in November while household spending rose faster than expected . (WSJ)
Nintendo Co. hit a bump in its supply chain, delaying delivery of 64-gigabyte game cards for its Switch console until 2019. (WSJ)
Sears Holding Corp. stopped buying television ads during the crucial holiday sales season . (WSJ)
Elon Musk teased vague plans for a Tesla Inc. pickup truck that would challenge a lucrative segment for auto makers. (WSJ)
Orbital ATK Inc. is sparking national security concerns by shifting to foreign purchases of an essential chemical used to power U.S. missiles and rockets . (WSJ)
Xiaomi Corp., once China’s top smartphone vendor, is looking to cash in on resurgent sales by going public . (WSJ)
Uber Technologies Inc. is selling its U.S. subprime auto-leasing business to startup car marketplace Fair.com. (WSJ)
China’s manufacturing sector expanded at a slower pace in December . (Xinhua)
The U.S. and South Korea will hold talks on their trade agreement this Friday in Washington. (Automotive News)
China will end the production of 553 passenger-car models that don’t meet anti-pollution fuel consumption limits . (Bloomberg)
Intermodal freight volume su