EL PASO, Texas, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: SBGI) ("Sinclair") announced that Matt Kaplowitz has been promoted to General Manager of KFOX (FOX) and KDBC (CBS) in El Paso, Texas. The announcement was made by Steve Marks, EVP & Chief Operating Officer of Sinclair's television group.
In making the announcement, Mr. Marks said, "Matt has been with KFOX since the year Sinclair acquired it in 2013, leading the sales efforts as Director of Sales for the last four years. He began his career in El Paso and, with his sales and management experience, as well as deep roots in the community, Matt will provide for a smooth continuity in leadership and operations."
"I am thrilled to be leading a wonderfully talented and dedicated team of professionals as we move into exciting times in our industry and become multi-platformed," commented Mr. Kaplowitz. "To be afforded this opportunity with Sinclair in my hometown of El Paso makes it that much better."
Mr. Kaplowitz has been the Director of Sales at KFOX-TV (FOX) in El Paso, Texas since 2013. He began his career in television sales working for the ABC affiliate in El Paso, Texas. Mr. Kaplowitz moved to KFOX in 2001 where he worked as an Account Executive until 2009. In 2009, he moved to Reno as a Local Sales Manager working for KRXI and KAME for three years before being promoted to Local Sales Manager of WPXI-TV in Pittsburgh. In 2013, Mr. Kaplowitz moved back to El Paso to assume the role of Director of Sales for the now Sinclair-owned KFOX-TV and KDBC-TV. Mr. Kaplowitz holds a degree in media arts from the University of Arizona.
Sinclair is one of the largest and most diversified television broadcasting companies in the country. Pro forma for the Tribune acquisition (before any related divestitures), the Company will own, operate and/or provide services to 233 television stations in 108 markets. The Company has multiple emerging networks as well as stations affiliated with all the major networks. Sinclair is a leading local news provider in the country and a producer of live sports content. Sinclair's content is delivered via multiple-platforms, including over-the-air, multi-channel video program distributors, and digital platforms. The Company regularly uses its website as a key source of Company information which can be accessed at www.sbgi.net .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sinclair-promotes-matt-kaplowitz-to-general-manager-in-el-paso-texas-300576495.html
SOURCE Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.