MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Concordia Care, Inc. (Concordia), a specialty risk-transfer company, announces the completion of its acquisition of Atlantic Imaging Group (Atlantic), a national Diagnostic Testing Network (DTN) with contracted radiology facilities in 48 states. In connection with the completion of the transaction, Concordia also acquired iHCFA, a nationwide claims clearinghouse platform.
“I am thrilled that we have completed the acquisition of AIG and related companies,” says Joseph Berardo Jr., CEO, Concordia. “Atlantic’s long history of providing the workers’ compensation and no-fault auto accident sector with access to quality diagnostics, combined with Concordia’s risk-transfer programs for large loss cases, makes an ideal pairing.”
He points out that the related acquisition of iHCFA, a nationwide claims clearinghouse platform, puts Concordia at the forefront of providing technology-enabled solutions that can positively impact the treatment outcomes of injured workers.
“The iHCFA system provides Concordia with access to data and the ability to create early warning claim triggers to identify common clinical conditions putting individuals at risk of delayed recovery,” Berardo concludes. “The acquisition of AIG and iHCFA align with our patient-centered strategy to advance access to quality care through our P2R model, and improve overall quality of life for injured workers.”
About Concordia Care, Inc.
Concordia Care, Inc. (Concordia) is a specialty risk transfer, care-coordination company servicing insurers, government entities, self-insured plan sponsors and other managed care organizations. Through its Pathways 2 Recovery (P2R) care model, Concordia aims to improve patient-centered outcomes and reduce overall cost of quality care by applying best practices in a biopsychosocial-centric approach to manage complex challenges for the casualty, group health and auto markets. Concordia’s integrated business units include: Concordia Casualty, Concordia Behavioral Health, Concordia Group Health, and Concordia Ancillary. Concordia holds dual accreditations from the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Healthcare Inc. (AAAHC) and the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). Visit www.concordiacare.com . Concordia is a MBF Healthcare Partners portfolio company.
About Atlantic Imaging Group and iHCFA
Atlantic Imaging Group (Atlantic) is a nationwide, registered Diagnostic Testing Network (“DTN”). For more information about Atlantic, visit www.aignetwork.com . iHCFA, a New Jersey-based clearinghouse, specializes in electronically facilitating workers’ compensation and automobile medical claims with all supporting documents. iHCFA is an industry leader with the ability to connect to any medical billing system and link to more than 1,000 insurance payors and third-party administrators in all 50 states. For more information on iHCFA, visit www.ihcfa.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005690/en/
CPR Communications for Concordia
Brittany Tedesco, 201-641-1911 x14
btedesco@cpronline.com
Source: Concordia Care, Inc.