NORTH TUSTIN, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Prentice School, a private, nonprofit, and nonpublic (NPS) academic school, which offers unparalleled learning experiences to bright students with learning differences, announced today that Dr. Christine Bixby, who is board certified in pediatrics and neonatal-perinatal medicine, and a current Prentice school parent, has been elected to the school’s board of directors.
Practicing Neonatologist at CHOC Children's Hospital, The Prentice School Board Member
Dr. Bixby was inspired to join The Prentice School board by the wonderful support her son has benefitted from, and because she believes she can bring greater awareness to how Prentice is the best place to support children with dyslexia and other learning differences. “The work being done at Prentice changes lives,” says Dr. Bixby. “As a Prentice parent for over five years, I have been impressed by the constant drive to improve and provide the best possible education for children with learning differences. It is my great privilege to join the Prentice board and bring a unique perspective to hopefully help more families see their children grow in such a wonderful way.”
Alicia Maciel, Executive Director at The Prentice School says, “As a Prentice parent, Dr. Bixby has first-hand experience of our mission. She has been a strong supporter of the school refinements we have implemented to ensure our students receive a high-quality education. We are honored to add her visionary leadership and diverse skill set to our Board of Directors."
“We are thrilled to have Dr. Bixby join the Prentice board,” says Mark Gaines, Prentice board President. “Not only is she a current Prentice parent that can provide real-time perspective on how we are doing, but she is also a medical professional that can provide us perspective on how to better partner with the medical community in providing educational services for children with learning differences.”
“Prentice is a phenomenal place that has changed the direction of my son's educational career. School has become a safe, supportive, fun, and successful place to be for a child who previously ran and hid when told school would be starting again," says Dr. Bixby. “At Prentice, the positive transformation of every student is truly magical. I have trusted the Prentice board and educational team with my child and I am so grateful and impressed with how he has grown academically, socially and in his confidence.”
Dr. Bixby is also an International Board Certified Lactation Consultant and the Lactation Medical Director at CHOC Children’s Hospital where she focuses on breastmilk handling and breastfeeding support in the NICU. She is an advocate for breastfeeding in Orange County through the Orange County Perinatal Committee and the Orange County Breastfeeding Coalition.
For over 30 years, The Prentice School has transformed the lives of over 5,000 students with learning differences such as dyslexia, dyscalculia, dysgraphia, ADHD, anxiety, and visual processing and executive function disorders.
Parents and donors, and educational and healthcare professionals, interested in learning more about The Prentice School can visit www.prentice.org for additional information.
ABOUT THE PRENTICE SCHOOL
Founded in 1986, The Prentice School is a private, nonprofit academic school located in North Tustin, California and is a Certified Nonpublic School through the California Department of Education and is fully accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges. The Prentice approach is designed to engage students on three learning pathways, including auditory, visual, and kinesthetic. Using evidence-based curriculum and instructional methodologies, a structured literacy approach, multi-sensory instructional strategies, and ongoing progress monitoring, The Prentice School offers an unparalleled learning experience to students with learning differences who possess average to high intelligence, whose needs have not been met in a more traditional classroom setting.
You can learn more about The Prentice School at www.prentice.org or call (714) 538.4511
Media Contact:
Mauricio Lopez
The Prentice School
(714) 563-4035
mlopez@prentice.org
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/29e8fd9a-ebc1-455d-b8da-640c398ed47b
Source:The Prentice School