DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Good Times Restaurants Inc. (NASDAQ: GTIM), operator of Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard, a regional quick-service restaurant chain focused on fresh, high quality, all natural products, and of Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar, a full service, upscale concept, today announced that it will host a conference call to discuss the first quarter of its 2018 fiscal year financial results on Thursday, February 1, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. (EST). Hosting the call will be Boyd Hoback, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ryan Zink, Chief Financial Officer. A press release with financial results will be issued prior to the call.
The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing (888) 339-0806 and requesting the Good Times Restaurants (GTIM) call.
The conference call will also be webcast live from the Company's corporate website investors.goodtimesburgers.com . An archive of the webcast will be available at the same location on the corporate website shortly after the call has concluded.
About Good Times Restaurants Inc.: Good Times Restaurants Inc. (GTIM) operates Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard, a regional chain of quick service restaurants located primarily in Colorado, in its wholly owned subsidiary, Good Times Drive Thru Inc. Good Times provides a menu of high quality all natural hamburgers, 100% all natural chicken tenderloins, fresh frozen custard, natural cut fries, fresh lemonades and other unique offerings. Good Times currently operates and franchises a total of 38 restaurants.
GTIM owns, operates, franchises and licenses 27 Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants through its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar is a full service, upscale, “small box” restaurant concept featuring a chef driven menu of gourmet signature burgers, chopped salads, appetizers and sandwiches with a full bar and a focus on a selection of craft microbrew beers in a high-energy atmosphere that appeals to a broad consumer base.
Good Times Forward Looking Statements: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The words “intend,” “may,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “seek” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These risks include such factors as the uncertain nature of current restaurant development plans and the ability to implement those plans and integrate new restaurants, delays in developing and opening new restaurants because of weather, local permitting or other reasons, increased competition, cost increases or shortages in raw food products, and other matters discussed under the “Risk Factors” section of Good Times’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2017 filed with the SEC. Although Good Times may from time to time voluntarily update its forward-looking statements, it disclaims any commitment to do so except as required by securities laws.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005683/en/
Good Times Restaurants Inc.
Investor Relations Contacts:
Boyd E. Hoback, 303-384-1411
President and CEO
or
Ryan M. Zink, 303-384-1432
Chief Financial Officer
or
Christi Pennington, 303-384-1440
Source: Good Times Restaurants Inc.