SAN FRANCISCO, Alation Inc. , the collaborative data company, today announced record revenue and customer growth in 2017, capped by its strongest quarter to date. Alation added 23 new customers in Q4 alone, including American Express, LimeBike, SurveyMonkey and PepsiCo, and expanded its footprint in EMEA and APAC.
To support company growth and market demand for data cataloging solutions, Alation doubled its number of employees in 2017. The company is also announcing a deepened executive team. Anand Aidasani has been promoted to vice president of sales; Helen Foo, an entrepreneur, advisor and experienced product manager, has been appointed as vice president of product management; and co-founder Aaron Kalb has been promoted to vice president of design and strategic initiatives. The expanded executive team complements the recent addition of Ken Hoang , vice president of strategy and alliances.
“Capped by a banner fourth quarter, 2017 was a breakout year for Alation and data catalogs in the enterprise. We’ve seen exceptionally strong customer growth and exceptionally high renewal and expansion rates. With the promotions of Anand and Aaron and the addition of Helen, our sales and product teams are fully equipped to meet the increased demand,” said Satyen Sangani, CEO, Alation. “We’re well positioned to take advantage of the sizeable market opportunity and continue to evolve the data catalog as a strategic asset for chief data officers and analytics leaders.”
Data catalogs are becoming central to the modern analytics organization and a strategic tool for chief data officers, who are increasingly responsible for driving business value with data. According to Gartner’s recent report, Data Catalogs Are the New Black in Data Management and Analytics , “Demand for data catalogs is soaring as organizations struggle to inventory distributed data assets to facilitate data monetization and conform to regulations.”* Alation was named a Leader in the 2017 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Metadata Management Solutions .** It was also the top-ranked data catalog in Dresner Advisory Services’ 2017 Wisdom of Crowds® Data Catalog Market Study . The company has seen increased demand from a wide array of sectors, including in consumer packaged goods, utilities and financial services.
For more information about Alation’s data catalog, visit alation.com/about .
*Gartner, Data Catalogs Are the New Black in Data Management and Analytics, Ehtisham Zaidi et al, 13 December 2017
**Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Metadata Management Solutions, Guido De Simoni, Roxane Edjlali, 10 August 2017
Gartner Disclaimer
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
About Alation
Alation, the leader in collaborative data cataloging, empowers analysts and information stewards to search, query and collaborate for faster, more accurate insights. The Alation platform leverages artificial intelligence to automatically capture the rich context of enterprise data, including relationships between data sets, analyst usage and trusted insights. Customers include Albertsons, eBay, Pfizer, Square, and some of the world’s largest financial services firms. Headquartered in Silicon Valley, Alation is funded by Costanoa Ventures, Data Collective, Harmony Partners, and Icon Ventures. visit alation.com .
Supporting Resources
Company: https://alation.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/Alation
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/alation
Media Contact
Sheridan Smalley
LEWIS for Alation
alation@teamlewis.com
(415) 432-2447
Source: Alation