FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Broward Health has named Jared M. Smith, CPA, chief executive officer of Broward Health Coral Springs .
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006200/en/
Broward Health has named Jared M. Smith, CPA, chief executive officer of Broward Health Coral Springs. (Photo: Business Wire)
“With Jared’s extensive hospital operations experience, we are confident that he will provide strong leadership to support our continued growth at Broward Health Coral Springs,” said Beverly Capasso, interim president and CEO of Broward Health. “He is a visionary and decisive leader with a proven track record of success in high-performing healthcare organizations.”
As chief executive officer of Broward Health Coral Springs, Smith is responsible for leading hospital operations, working closely with the management team and medical staff to expand services and provide high-quality care.
With more than 23 years of healthcare experience, Smith was a leader within the Tenet Healthcare organization, most recently serving as the national service line administrator for cardiac and vascular services. Previously, he served as chief operating officer (COO) of Delray Medical Center, a 536-bed quaternary care facility and teaching hospital. In addition to leading the day-to-day operations of the medical center, Smith was responsible for implementing nearly $100 million of major program development initiatives.
He also led the efforts of Tenet’s first proton center in Palm Beach and he chaired the COO group of the coastal division, comprised of 17 hospitals. Smith began his career at Deloitte & Touche working for many major hospital systems. He was later recruited by Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach to serve as the director of strategic development, planning and government relations.
Smith holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in accounting and a Master of Science in taxation from the University of Miami. He is a certified public accountant in the state of Florida.
About Broward Health
Broward Health, providing service for more than 75 years, is a nationally recognized system in South Florida that offers world-class healthcare to all. The Broward Health system includes the statutory teaching hospital Broward Health Medical Center, Broward Health North, Broward Health Imperial Point, Broward Health Coral Springs, Salah Foundation Children’s Hospital, Broward Health Weston, Broward Health Community Health Services, Broward Health Physician Group, Broward Health Urgent Care, Broward Health International, and Broward Health Foundation. For more information, visit BrowardHealth.org .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006200/en/
Broward Health
Media Contacts:
Denise Moore, 954-634-2704
drmoore@browardhealth.org
or
EvClay Public Relations
Melisa Chantres, +1-305-261-6222, Toll Free +1-877-261-6222
mmchantres@evclay.com
Source: Broward Health