TORONTO, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - theScore, Inc. (TSX Venture: SCR) ("theScore") plans to release its Q1 F2018 financial results on Thursday, January 11 at 7:00am EST .
The Company will also be hosting a conference call where Founder & Chief Executive Officer John Levy, President & Chief Operating Officer Benjie Levy and Chief Financial Officer Tom Hearne will review the Company's results followed by a Q&A session.
The conference call is scheduled to begin at 8:30am EST on Thursday, January 11 . To participate, please call into the conference approximately five minutes prior to it beginning.
Conference Call Dial-In Numbers
Toronto: (+1) 416 764 8688
Toll Free North America: (+1) 888 390 0546
Instant Replay
Toronto: (+1) 416 764 8677
Toll Free: North America (+1) 888 390 0541
Playback Passcode: 513838 #
The conference call will also be webcast live. Register now here .
theScore will also be hosting its Annual General Meeting at 11:00am EST on Thursday, January 11 at the Company's Toronto office at: 500 King Street West, Fourth Floor, Toronto, Ontario, M5V 1L9.
Stay connected to theScore!
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
About theScore Inc.
theScore's mission is to create highly-engaging digital products and content that empower the sports fan's experience. Its flagship mobile app 'theScore' is one of the most popular multi-sport news and data apps in North America, serving millions of fans a month. The Company also creates innovative digital sports experiences through its web, social and esports platforms.
Forward-looking (safe harbour) statement
Statements made in this news release that relate to future plans, events or performances are forward-looking statements. Any statement containing words such as "may", "would", "could", "will", "believes", "plans", "anticipates", "estimates", "expects" or "intends" and other similar statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking, and these statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. Such statements reflect theScore's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors could cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forward looking statements, including among other things, those which are discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Information Form and Short-form Prospectus as filed with the TSX Venture Exchange and available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and elsewhere in documents that theScore files from time to time with securities regulatory authorities. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements. The Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements except as required by applicable law or regulatory requirements.
SOURCE theScore, Inc.