BOSTON, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Eaton Vance Corp. (NYSE: EV) (Eaton Vance) announced today that Chief Administrative Officer Jeffrey P. Beale will retire on May 1, 2018. He will be replaced by Daniel C. Cataldo, the firm's Treasurer. Mr. Cataldo will report to Thomas E. Faust Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and will join the Management Committee.
Related developments include the appointment of John L. Shea, Eaton Vance's Chief Information Officer, to the Management Committee and the election of Lawrence L. Fahey, Director of Corporate Operations, as President of the Eaton Vance-sponsored U.S. Charitable Gift Trust®, in which capacity he will replace Mr. Beale. Mr. Shea and Mr. Fahey will each retain their current responsibilities and will report to Mr. Cataldo. Laurie G. Hylton, Chief Financial Officer, will serve as Treasurer on an interim basis while a search for Mr. Cataldo's replacement in that role is conducted.
Mr. Beale first joined Eaton Vance in 1992 and has served as Chief Administrative Officer since 1999. In that capacity he oversees the firm's information technology, operations, mutual fund and dealer services, fund administration, human resources and facilities management.
Mr. Cataldo began his career in the investment management industry with Eaton Vance in 1984 and has served as Treasurer since 2012. Over the past 34 years, his responsibilities with the firm have included leadership of treasury, investor relations, budgeting and financial analysis, operations and internal audit functions.
"Over his more than 25 years with the Company, Jeff Beale has demonstrated outstanding commitment to our clients, staff members and business partners, and has worked tirelessly to ensure that Eaton Vance maintains an exemplary service record and corporate culture," said Mr. Faust. "We are fortunate to replace him with Dan Cataldo, one of our most accomplished senior business leaders and longtime carrier of the Company's core values. While Jeff will be greatly missed, I am confident in our ability to effect a seamless transition."
Eaton Vance (NYSE: EV) is a leading global asset manager whose history dates to 1924. With offices in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia, Eaton Vance and its affiliates managed $432.2 billion in assets as of December 31, 2017, offering institutions and individuals a broad array of investment strategies and wealth management solutions. The Company's long record of providing exemplary service, timely innovation and attractive returns through a variety of market conditions has made Eaton Vance the investment manager of choice for many of today's most discerning investors. For more information, visit eatonvance.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/eaton-vance-announces-senior-leadership-changes-300583093.html
SOURCE Eaton Vance Corp.