Stafford Thompson, Jr. to lead product development and inforce management for Lincoln’s individual Life Insurance, MoneyGuard and Executive Benefit product lines.
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) announced today that Stafford Thompson, Jr. has been named senior vice president, Life Product Management, for its individual Life Insurance business. Thompson brings with him 23 years of insurance industry experience and knowledge, in areas including reinsurance, product development and pricing, and risk management. Thompson is based in Greensboro, NC and reports to Mike Burns, senior vice president and head of Life Solutions.
“Lincoln prides itself on offering one of the industry’s broadest portfolios of life insurance products to meet multi-generational, client-specific needs,” said Burns. “Stafford is a proven leader with deep industry experience and expertise who will help us continue to expand, diversify and enhance our comprehensive solution set, and innovate to reach and serve clients in our core and emerging markets.”
Thompson oversees product development, pricing and management for Lincoln’s individual Life Insurance, MoneyGuard and Executive Benefit products, as well as inforce management for these product lines. He is also responsible for Life business development.
Thompson joins Lincoln from SCOR Global Life Americas, where he most recently held the position of vice president, marketing actuary, managing client reinsurance request for proposals, and building and managing client relationships. Prior responsibilities at SCOR included product development, mass marketing and financial reinsurance in Latin America. Over the course of his career, Thompson has held executive and actuarial positions at Transamerica Reinsurance, North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company and Cigna.
Thompson holds a bachelor of science degree in mathematics with a concentration in actuarial science from Florida A&M University. He is a fellow of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries. He is a board member and former president of the International Association of Black Actuaries.
*Photos available upon request.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group provides advice and solutions that help empower people to take charge of their financial lives with confidence and optimism. Today, more than 17 million customers trust our retirement, insurance and wealth protection expertise to help address their lifestyle, savings and income goals, as well as to guard against long-term care expenses. Headquartered in Radnor, Pennsylvania, Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE: LNC) and its affiliates. The company had $246 billion in assets under management as of September 30, 2017. Lincoln is a committed corporate citizen and was named one of the Forbes Best Employers for 2017, is a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, and received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index. Learn more at: www.LincolnFinancial.com . Follow us on Facebook , Twitter, LinkedIn , and Instagram . Sign up for email alerts at http://newsroom.lfg.com .
LCN- 1978313-122217
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005364/en/
Lincoln Financial Group
Media Relations Contact:
Jay Russo
860-466-1324
Jay.Russo@lfg.com
Source: Lincoln Financial Group