HOUSTON, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE-- Quantum Medical Transport, Inc. (OTCBB:DRWN) announces plans to launch a $50 Million ICO (Initial Coin Offering) via Private Placement to raise capital for growth, debt restructuring, stock repurchase and acquisitions. The company is in the process of having its white paper/private placement memorandum developed to launch its Pre-ICO offering. The digital tokens or custom coins known as cryptocurrency similar to (e.g. Bitcoin and Ether) will be offered via a known credible Fintech public blockchain Etherum based platform, which will enable digital coin traders known as miners to purchase the utility coins in fiat currency, Bitcoin or Ether. A formal prospectus/white paper will be released soon. Our prospectus will be offered to accredited investors pursuant to Rule 506(c). We believe this will become the norm for venture capital type capital raises. The company will seek to develop a FINTECH blockchain technology that enables secure encryption data sharing (Health Information Data Exchange) that will be HIPAA compliant. We believe this technology platform can be a significant revenue generator for the company as healthcare professionals such physicians, medical facilities including nursing homes we currently service will be able to utilize the subscription service that will use a multi-signature, multi-layer secure key code through a set of customized nodes to transport data.
(This announcement appears as a matter of record only and is not an offer to sale any securities. No party has been authorized to sale securities on behalf of the company. Any offer and sale will be conducted via prospectus only to qualified investors).
About Quantum Medical Transport/United Ambulance
QUANTUM MEDICAL TRANSPORT, INC. /UNITED AMBULANCE, LLC is an emergency and non-emergency medical services transportation company that operates in the State of Texas. The Company provides basic and advanced life support ground transport in an emergency and non-emergency setting, 24 hours a day, and seven days a week. The Company makes both local and regional out-of-town services available on a daily dispatch basis.
Management remains focused on providing prompt, high-quality patient care at the Advanced and Basic Life Support levels. Employees will work diligently to achieve goals while maintaining the highest standards of care.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "intends, "plans," "should," "seeks," "pro forma," "anticipates," "estimates," "continues," (including their use in the negative), or by discussions of strategies, plans or intentions. A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements, including those discussed under "Risk Factors" and "Our Business." Forward- subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are based on potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated for many reasons.
Source: QUANTUM MEDICAL TRANSPORT, INC.
Investor Relations:
Ricky Bernard
832-436-1831 x100
info@quantummedicaltransport.com
www.quantummedicaltransport.com
Source:Quantum Medical Transport, Inc.