Langley, U.K., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Travelport Worldwide Limited (NYSE: TVPT) confirmed today that it will host its fourth quarter 2017 earnings conference call at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Standard Time) on Tuesday, February 20, 2018. The Company's earnings results will be released prior to the market opening. The details of the conference call are as follows:
Time:
9:00 a.m. (Eastern Standard Time)
Telephone Dial-in:
To pre-register for the call, please click the following link and submit the required form: http://dpregister.com/10115961 . Once successfully pre-registered, access details and an individual access code will be provided along with a calendar meeting invitation and reminder. Individuals may call in beginning at 8:45 a.m. (Eastern Standard Time).
Presentation:
A copy of the earnings slides will be posted on the Investors section of Travelport's website shortly after the earnings announcement is issued that morning.
Audiocast:
As an alternative means of accessing the call, a live audiocast of the presentation and accompanying slides will also be available via the Investors section of Travelport's website at http://ir.travelport.com/ .
Please visit the site or click the following link to pre-register: https://www.webcaster4.com/Webcast/Page/1138/24140 .
Replay Information:
Shortly after the end of the investor call, a replay of the audiocast will be made available on the Investors section of Travelport's website where it will remain available for one year.
About Travelport ( www.travelport.com )
Travelport (NYSE:TVPT) is the technology company which makes the experience of buying and managing travel continually better. It operates a travel commerce platform providing distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the global travel and tourism industry. The company facilitates travel commerce by connecting the world's leading travel providers with online and offline travel buyers in a proprietary business-to-business (B2B) travel marketplace.
Travelport has a leadership position in airline merchandising, hotel content and distribution, car rental, mobile commerce and B2B payment solutions. The company also provides critical IT services to airlines, such as shopping, ticketing, departure control and other solutions. With net revenue of over $2.3 billion in 2016, Travelport is headquartered in Langley, UK, has approximately 4,000 staff and is represented in 180 countries and territories.
Investor s :
Majid Nazir
Head of Investor Relations
Tel: +44 (0)1753 288 857
majid.nazir@travelport.com
Media:
Julian Eccles
Vice President, PR and Corporate Communications
Tel: +44 (0)7720 409 374
julian.eccles@travelport.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/travelport-worldwide-limited-confirms-date-and-time-for-fourth-quarter-2017-earnings-conference-call-300580818.html
SOURCE Travelport Worldwide Limited