LOS ANGELES, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc. (the "Company" or "Rexford Industrial") (NYSE: REXR), a real estate investment trust focused on owning and operating industrial properties located in Southern California infill markets, today announced that, under its "At the Market" stock offering program ("ATM"), the Company issued an aggregate of 596,448 shares of common stock during the quarter ending December 31, 2017. The shares were issued at a weighted average offering price of $30.44 per share, receiving gross proceeds of approximately $18.2 million and net proceeds of approximately $17.9 million. The Company used the net proceeds of the ATM to fund acquisitions, repay indebtedness and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
A registration statement relating to these securities has been declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor will there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction. The offering of these securities will be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and related base prospectus. Copies of the prospectus supplement and the related base prospectus may be obtained from the Internet site of the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov .
About Rexford Industrial
Rexford Industrial is a real estate investment trust focused on owning and operating industrial properties in Southern California infill markets. The Company owns 151 properties with approximately 18.5 million rentable square feet and manages an additional 19 properties with approximately 1.2 million rentable square feet.
For additional information, visit www.rexfordindustrial.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," or "potential" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases which are predictions of or indicate future events or trends and which do not relate solely to historical matters. While forward-looking statements reflect the Company's good faith beliefs, assumptions and expectations, they are not guarantees of future performance. For a further discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's future results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements, see the reports and other filings by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. The Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, of new information, data or methods, future events or other changes.
Contact:
Investor Relations:
Stephen Swett
424 256 2153 ext. 401
investorrelations@rexfordindustrial.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rexford-industrial-provides-update-on-recent-atm-activity-300577880.html
SOURCE Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc.