SAN RAFAEL, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- PAC Machinery, a leader in the heat sealing and flexible packaging industry, announced today that they have hired a new packaging industry professional to manage their Southeastern US territory. Owing to increased sales activity, PAC Machinery has expanded sales regions with the Southeastern region being the latest. Growing demand - particularly in the Southern United States - has necessitated a greater presence in these areas.
Josh Kingsley joins PAC Machinery as the Regional Sales Manager in the Southeastern territory.
Josh Kingsley to bring valuable sales experience to growing U.S. markets
Kansas native, Josh Kingsley joins PAC Machinery as a seasoned sales professional bringing with him nearly a decade of sales management experience. Before joining PAC Machinery, Mr. Kingsley served as a product manager for Germantown, WI-based Glue Dots International. Before his service at Glue Dots, Mr. Kingsley held various sales and management positions at Pentair Manufacturing and Milwaukee Electric Tool. Mr. Kingsley will serve the Southeastern territory and will be headquartered in PAC Machinery’s newly expanded Milwaukee, WI facility.
About PAC Machinery
PAC Machinery is a privately held company headquartered in San Rafael, California. The company manufactures equipment and materials that are used in the flexible packaging industry. Products include heat sealing equipment, vacuum sealers, automatic baggers, pre-opened bags on a roll, and shrink packaging systems. The company has had its roots in the packaging industry since the early 1950’s, and now designs, manufactures and markets products through its family of companies: Packaging Aids, Vertrod, Clamco, Rollbag Systems, PacMed and Converting Technology. PAC Machinery is the exclusive, North American distributor for Audion bag sealers. Manufacturing facilities are located in San Rafael, CA; Berea, OH; and Milwaukee, WI. Contact PAC Machinery at 25 Tiburon Street, San Rafael, CA 94901. Telephone 1-234-222-1000. Email bobg@pacmachinery.com
www.pacmachinery.com
Media contact:
Robert Goldberg, Marketing Director
PAC Machinery
(415) 454-4868 ext. 125
bobg@pacmachinery.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/f2d9af9b-b2c3-42ef-b246-0d9e9e589d3e
Source:PAC Machinery