ATLANTA, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Graphic Packaging International, LLC (NYSE: GPK) has announced the appointment of Spencer Maurer to Senior Vice President, Americas Foodservice, the business unit created from the combination with International Paper's Consumer Packaging business. In this role, Maurer will oversee the foodservice business's three U.S. converting plants, commercial and innovation teams, and other supporting functions. Maurer has been with Graphic Packaging since 1992 and has held various leadership positions including, most recently, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain.
"Spencer's deep knowledge and experience within Graphic Packaging will facilitate a smooth and effective integration as we meaningfully increase our exposure to the growing foodservice market," said Joe Yost, Senior Vice President and President, Americas Converting.
About Graphic Packaging International
Graphic Packaging International, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is committed to providing consumer packaging that makes a world of difference. The Company is a leading provider of paper-based packaging solutions for a wide variety of products to food, beverage, foodservice, and other consumer product companies. The Company operates on a global basis, is one of the largest producers of folding cartons and paper-based foodservice products in the United States, and holds leading market positions in solid bleached sulfate paperboard, coated unbleached kraft paperboard and coated recycled paperboard. The Company's customers include many of the world's most widely-recognized companies and brands. Additional information about Graphic Packaging, its business and its products is available on the Company's web site at www.graphicpkg.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/spencer-maurer-appointed-senior-vice-president-americas-foodservice-for-graphic-packaging-international-300581995.html
SOURCE Graphic Packaging International, LLC