PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today, Delaware Investments Dividend and Income Fund, Inc. (the “Fund”), a New York Stock Exchange–listed closed-end fund trading under the symbol “DDF,” declares a monthly dividend of $0.0400 per share. The dividend is payable Feb. 23, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Feb. 9, 2018. The ex-dividend date will be Feb. 8, 2018.
The Fund is a diversified closed-end fund. The primary investment objective is to seek high current income; capital appreciation is a secondary objective. The Fund seeks to achieve its objectives by investing, under normal circumstances, at least 65% of its total assets in income-generating equity securities, including dividend-paying common stocks, convertible securities, preferred stocks, and other equity-related securities, which may include up to 25% in real estate investment trusts (REITs) and real estate industry operating companies. Up to 35% of the Fund's total assets may be invested in nonconvertible debt securities consisting primarily of high-yield, high-risk corporate bonds. In addition, the Fund utilizes leveraging techniques in an attempt to obtain a higher return for the Fund. There is no assurance that the Fund will achieve its investment objectives.
The Fund has implemented a managed distribution policy. Under the policy, the Fund is managed with a goal of generating as much of the distribution as possible from net investment income and short-term capital gains. The balance of the distribution will then come from long-term capital gains to the extent permitted, and if necessary, a return of capital. Even though the Fund may realize current year capital gains, such gains may be offset, in whole or in part, by the Fund’s capital loss carryovers from prior years. The actual determination of the source of the Fund's distributions can be made only at year end. Shareholders should receive written notification regarding the actual components and tax treatments of all Fund distributions for the calendar year 2017 in early 2018.
About Macquarie Investment Management
Macquarie Investment Management, a member of Macquarie Group, includes the former Delaware Investments and is a global asset manager with offices throughout the United States, Europe, Asia, and Australia. As active managers, we prioritize autonomy and accountability at the team level in pursuit of opportunities that matter for clients. Macquarie Investment Management is supported by the resources of Macquarie Group (ASX: MQG; ADR: MQBKY), a global provider of asset management, investment, banking, financial and advisory services.
Advisory services are provided by Macquarie Investment Management Business Trust, a registered investment advisor. Macquarie Group refers to Macquarie Group Limited and its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. For more information about Delaware Funds SM by Macquarie, visit delawarefunds.com or call 800 523-1918.
Other than Macquarie Bank Limited (MBL), none of the entities referred to in this document are authorized deposit-taking institutions for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959 (Commonwealth of Australia). The obligations of these entities do not represent deposits or other liabilities of MBL, a subsidiary of Macquarie Group Limited and an affiliate of Macquarie Investment Management. MBL does not guarantee or otherwise provide assurance in respect of the obligations of these entities, unless noted otherwise.
© 2018 Macquarie Management Holdings, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006426/en/
Investors
Computershare
866 437-0252
delawarefunds.com/closed-end
or
Media contacts
Daniela Palmieri, 215 255-8878
or
Jessica Fitzgerald, 215 255-1336
Source: Macquarie Investment Management