ROSEMONT, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Wynnchurch Capital, LLC ("Wynnchurch"), announced today that it has completed an investment in Anderson Metals Corporation, Inc. ("Anderson" or the "Company"). Anderson is a manufacturer of brass fittings, valves, pipe nipples and related products to the plumbing, hardware and general industrial end-markets. The Company is headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri and was founded in 1947.
Chris O'Brien, Managing Partner at Wynnchurch said, "Anderson has built an outstanding reputation and strong leadership position in its industry during the past 70 years. We feel very fortunate to partner with Keith and Kent Anderson going forward. In addition, we believe this is an ideal opportunity for Paul Ciolino, a Wynnchurch Operating Partner and former CEO of US Pipe, to work with management and leverage his leadership, industry expertise and relationships to take Anderson to the next level." Greg Gleason, Managing Director at Wynnchurch added, "We are excited to invest in Anderson and to build on the Company's history of success. We believe that Anderson's focus on providing customers with industry leading quality, availability and service, combined with Wynnchurch's experience, positions Anderson to be a strong platform for growth."
"We are thrilled to partner with Wynnchurch at this important point in Anderson's history. With new capital, resources, support and tools, we are confident the future for Anderson has never been brighter," said Kent Anderson. Keith Anderson added, "We knew right away that Wynnchurch was the right partner. We are excited to work closely with Paul and the team to significantly grow the business both organically and through acquisitions."
Wynnchurch Capital is actively investing from its $1.3 billion Fund IV. In November 2017, Wynnchurch acquired America II, a global leader in electronic component distribution and supply chain services serving a broad array of products for use in higher value-add applications across diversified end-markets. Other recent Wynnchurch investments include Stampede Meat, a processor and distributor of portioned, marinated and cooked beef, chicken, and other protein products for restaurants, retail, home delivery and other channels; and Rosboro Company, LLC, a leading integrated forest products operation producing a wide variety of products including laminated beams, studs, and veneer.
About Anderson Metals:
Anderson Metals, headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri, is a manufacturer of brass fittings, valves, pipe nipples and related products, which are sold into the plumbing, hardware and general industrial end-markets. The Company supplies over 12,000 SKU's across a variety of categories including lead-free and leaded brass fittings, valves, pipe nipples, non-metallic fittings and assorted parts and accessories. For more information, please visit: http://www.andersonmetals.com .
About Wynnchurch Capital:
Wynnchurch Capital, LLC, headquartered in the Chicago suburb of Rosemont, Illinois, with offices in California and Canada, was founded in 1999, and is a leading middle-market private equity investment firm. Wynnchurch's strategy is to partner with middle market companies in the United States and Canada that possess the potential for substantial growth and profit improvement. Wynnchurch Capital manages a number of private equity funds with $2.2 billion of committed capital under management and specializes in recapitalizations, growth capital, management buyouts, corporate carve-outs and restructurings. For more information, please visit: www.wynnchurch.com.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005174/en/
Wynnchurch Capital, LLC
Chris O'Brien
Managing Partner
cobrien@wynnchurch.com
or
Paul Ciolino
Operating Partner
pciolino@wynnchurchadvisors.com
or
Greg Gleason
Managing Director
ggleason@wynnchurch.com
Source: Wynnchurch Capital, LLC