SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Datavant announced today the appointment of Dr. Eric Perakslis as Chief Scientific Officer. In this role, Dr. Perakslis will bring extensive bioinformatic knowledge and thought leadership to accelerate Datavant's mission of organizing and integrating the world's healthcare data.
One of the foremost leaders in healthcare data informatics, Dr. Perakslis brings decades of clinical trial, R&D, academic, technical, and policy experience to Datavant's leadership team:
While at Takeda, Dr. Perakslis served as Senior Vice President of Informatics where he built a team of more than 165 data scientists. Prior to Takeda, Dr. Perakslis served as Chief Information Officer and Chief Scientist at the FDA where he developed the agency's first strategic technology plan, built its cloud strategy, and drove its cybersecurity strategy to FISMA Compliance. Prior to FDA, Dr. Perakslis spent 13 years in pharmaceutical leadership roles. As SVP at Johnson & Johnson, he developed and deployed the tranSMART clinical data warehouse system that has been used as a core clinical repository by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) in Europe and is currently in use by hundreds of government, industry, and non-governmental organizations.
"We are thrilled to welcome Dr. Eric Perakslis onto our leadership team," said Travis May, Co-Founder and President of Datavant. "Dr. Perakslis brings decades of experience at the edge of technology innovation in the pharmaceutical industry, a strong reputation as a thought leader, a keen intellect, and passion for improving patient outcomes. His leadership will be invaluable in reaching Datavant's ambitious goal of using data to double the percentage of drugs that succeed in late-stage clinical trials by 2020."
About Datavant
Datavant is a technology company dedicated to organizing and integrating the world's healthcare data. Based in San Francisco, Datavant's products improve the design and interpretation of clinical trials through data integration and artificial intelligence, increasing the odds of success of clinical trials and helping more drugs reach patients.
Datavant's vision is backed by Roivant Sciences , SoftBank Vision Fund, and Founders Fund.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/datavant-hires-former-fda-chief-information-officer-eric-perakslis-as-chief-scientific-officer-300576815.html
SOURCE Datavant