RESTON, Va., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Specialists on Call, Inc. (SOC) announced today that Wayne Grodsky will be joining the executive team as Chief Growth Officer. In this new role, Wayne will be leading business development, marketing, and client success at SOC. With over 25 years of healthcare experience working with hospital systems, physician practices, health plans, and healthcare business partners, Wayne is poised to bring SOC a focus on long-term and strategic partnerships.
"Wayne has a proven track record of driving value through revenue optimization and stabilization, workflow and process improvement, integrated innovative technology and compliance. His background and vast experience will help SOC evolve as we continue to innovate and grow," said Hammad Shah, CEO. "Bringing in a Chief Growth Officer signifies SOC's readiness to rapidly scale the business after significant investment in our state of the art telemedicine platform."
"I'm incredibly excited to join such an innovative and collaborative organization that is laser-focused on provider success and patient outcomes. SOC's telemedicine platform, paired with their network of physicians, is truly changing the paradigm of healthcare by getting patients the care they need as fast as possible, as efficiently as possible, and as cost-effectively as possible," commented Wayne Grodsky.
Wayne Grodsky came to SOC from ZirMed, a revenue cycle management solutions company, where he served as Enterprise Growth Officer. Prior to that, Wayne was Chief Growth Officer for Optum's Risk and Quality Solutions business that provided strategic and tactical risk-based enablement services/technologies assisting healthcare providers and payers as they transition to value-based reimbursement. Before being acquired by Optum, Wayne was Chief Sales Officer for Executive Health Resources (EHR), where he was instrumental in growing EHR from 50 hospitals to over 2,700 hospitals and increasing annual revenue by 40 percent.
About Specialists On Call, Inc.
Specialists On Call, Inc. (SOC) is the largest provider of acute care telemedicine services and technology to U.S. hospitals and partners with over 400 hospitals and systems across 36 states. Through its Neurology, Psychiatry, and Critical Care solutions, SOC virtually delivers physicians directly to the patient's bedside. The company's Consult Coordination Center (CCC) is the hub of its clinical and operational support teams, and dedicated to accelerating patient care through a fully redundant and state-of-the-art platform.
SOC provides industry leading reporting and analytics and lean six sigma support to optimize workflows towards achieving high clinical outcomes. SOC's flexible, enterprise technology platform enables hospitals to rapidly deploy and seamlessly optimize or expand a telemedicine program by leveraging its proven and scalable infrastructure. The organization was the first private provider of acute clinical telemedicine services to earn The Joint Commission's Gold Seal of Approval and has maintained that accreditation every year since inception. For more information, visit www.specialistsoncall.com .
Contact for Specialists On Call:
Meg Hoyecki, VP Marketing
703-225-7145
mhoyecki@soctelemed.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wayne-grodsky-joins-specialists-on-call-as-chief-growth-officer-300578988.html
SOURCE Specialists On Call, Inc.