ATLANTA, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Rollins, Inc. (NYSE:ROL), a premier global consumer and commercial services company announced today that Beth Chandler, General Counsel, has been appointed to the position of Corporate Secretary. Tom Luczynski, previous Corporate Secretary, has been elevated to the position of President of Orkin Global Development and International Franchising as well as Assistant Corporate Secretary effective January 1, 2018.
In 2013, Beth joined Rollins as Vice President and General Counsel. Her role as head of the Company's law department quickly expanded to include legal support for domestic and international acquisitions, along with privacy and governance. In 2016, Beth assumed responsibility for the Risk Management group. She has led her team to achieve great progress in streamlining this area of operations. Later, adding the Internal Audit group to her responsibilities in 2017 provided stronger synchronization between Risk, Legal and Internal Audit, all while improving compliance efforts.
Beth received her J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law. She also received her B.B.A. in International Business, magna cum laude, with general honors from the University of Georgia.
Tom Luczynski joined Rollins Inc. more than 30 years ago and has held several financial and operational positions at Orkin and Rollins including Controller, Vice President of Finance, and Vice President of Rollins Acceptance Company, the Rollins finance company. In April 2010, he was named an Executive Officer of Rollins, Inc., serving as Corporate Secretary and was named Group Vice President in 2012. Since 2007, Tom has presided over the Orkin International Franchising group and has led the Company's expansion to over 53 Countries.
Tom, originally from Rome, New York, received his B.S. in Accounting from LeMoyne College in Syracuse, New York.
Rollins, Inc. is a premier global consumer and commercial services company. Through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Orkin LLC., HomeTeam Pest Defense, Orkin Canada, Western Pest Services, Northwest Exterminating, Critter Control, Inc., The Industrial Fumigant Company, Trutech LLC., Rollins Australia, Waltham Services LLC., PermaTreat, Rollins UK, and Crane Pest Control, the Company provides essential pest control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and insects to more than two million customers in the United States, Canada, Central America, South America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa, Mexico, and Australia from more than 700 locations. You can learn more about Rollins and its subsidiaries by visiting our web sites at www.orkin.com , www.pestdefense.com , www.orkincanada.ca , www.westernpest.com , www.callnorthwest.com www.crittercontrol.com , www.indfumco.com , www.trutechinc.com , www.allpest.com.au , www.walthamservices.com , www.permatreat.com , www.cranepestcontrol.com , www.murraypestcontrol.com.au , www.statewidepestcontrol.com.au , www.safeguardpestcontrol.co.uk , and www.rollins.com . You can also find this and other news releases at www.rollins.com by accessing the news releases button.
For Further Information Contact
Eddie Northen (404) 888-2242
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rollins-inc-announces-organization-changes-300589009.html
SOURCE Rollins, Inc.