PASADENA, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Materia, Inc., a world-leading supplier of high-performance thermoset polymers, has announced that Christopher Murphy has been named president and chief executive officer effective February 1. Murphy succeeds Nitin Apte who has been named chief executive officer of a renewable energy company based in Singapore.
"As a former business and sales leader at SABIC and E.I. Dupont de Nemours, Chris has a proven track record of profitably growing materials businesses, commercializing technology and winning in new market applications," said Ray Roberge, Materia's Chairman of the Board. "Chris is the right person at the right time to lead the growth of Materia's advanced polymer business and we are very pleased that he will be joining our team."
"The Materia Board thanks Nitin for his many contributions and for positioning Materia for rapid growth through new strategic partnerships and expansion of the company's manufacturing footprint," said Roberge. "We wish Nitin much success in his new endeavor."
Murphy joins Materia from SABIC where he served as Americas Director in the automotive business and Global Business Director for specialty blends and compounds driving impressive business growth. During his service at E.I. Dupont De Nemours, Inc., Murphy served in positions of increasing responsibility including automotive marketing manager, regional sales and marketing director and global initiatives director. In his most recent DuPont assignment, Murphy led the transition for multiple divestitures of large, complex global businesses and the negotiations and implementation that maximized divestiture value.
"I am honored to have the opportunity to lead Materia at such a pivotal time in the company's history, as well as to work with such a committed and innovative team," said Murphy.
About Materia, Inc.
Materia, Inc. manufacturers Proxima® thermoset resins used in the oil and gas, chemicals, transportation, and electronics materials industries. Materia's polymer experts work closely with customers to deliver customized solutions that meet performance requirements. For more information about Materia and the Proxima® resins difference visit: www.materia-inc.com .
For more information, contact:
Alexandra Warren
Marketing Manager
626.584.3941 ext 285
awarren@materia-inc.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/materia-inc-names-new-president-and-ceo-christopher-murphy-300589905.html
SOURCE Materia, Inc.