LONDON, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- IGT has appointed Kim Barker Lee to the newly-created role of Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion. Kim will be responsible for developing and implementing the Company's first-ever global diversity and inclusion strategy. Kim will also chair the Executive Diversity and Inclusion Council (EDIC), which is comprised of global senior and emerging leaders and provides leadership support for the Company's diversity and inclusion initiative, ensuring that the Company's diversity and inclusion goals are relevant, have an impact, and are measurable.
"IGT is committed to ensuring that our workforce reflects the global customers and communities that we serve. Bringing more diverse perspectives to the table drives innovation and will enable IGT to continue to deliver the best products and services to our customers. Kim is an excellent choice for this position. Her personal contribution to IGT, true passion for diversity and inclusion, and unwavering commitment, mark her as exactly what this position calls for," said Mario Di Loreto, IGT Executive Vice President of People and Transformation .
"IGT has established itself as the industry leader in gaming because of our unique understanding of players across the globe. Our goal is to meet the needs of our global customer base through a diverse and energized workforce. It's not just about numbers or demographics," said Kim Barker Lee, IGT Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion . "Diversity and inclusion goes beyond gender and race. We want to embed into our values a culture of inclusion where all our employees feel valued, respected, listened to, engaged, and empowered to contribute to the success of the Company. IGT will continue to achieve success by recognizing that diversity is an asset and a business imperative in today's global marketplace."
Kim began at IGT in 2011 as Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Compliance, for Northstar Lottery Group in Illinois. Her role at Northstar allowed Kim to successfully implement recognized supplier diversity programs that surpassed Northstar's contractually established goals. Kim holds a law degree from New York University School of Law and a Bachelor of Arts from Yale College. She recently relocated from Chicago, Illinois to Providence, Rhode Island.
About IGT
IGT (NYSE:IGT) is the global leader in gaming. We enable players to experience their favorite games across all channels and regulated segments, from Gaming Machines and Lotteries to Interactive and Social Gaming. Leveraging a wealth of premium content, substantial investment in innovation, in-depth customer intelligence, operational expertise and leading-edge technology, our gaming solutions anticipate the demands of consumers wherever they decide to play. We have a well-established local presence and relationships with governments and regulators in more than 100 countries around the world, and create value by adhering to the highest standards of service, integrity, and responsibility. IGT has over 12,000 employees. For more information, please visit www.IGT.com .
Contact:
Robert K. Vincent, Corporate Communications, toll free in U.S./Canada (844) IGT-7452; outside U.S./Canada (401) 392-7452
James Hurley, Investor Relations, (401) 392-7190
Simone Cantagallo, (+39) 06 51899030; for Italian media inquiries
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/igt-appoints-its-first-ever-vice-president-of-diversity-and-inclusion-kim-barker-lee-300588437.html
SOURCE IGT