MEDINA, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- RPM International Inc. (NYSE: RPM) today announced that its board of directors has declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.32 per share, payable on January 31, 2018 to stockholders of record as of January 17, 2018.
RPM's last cash dividend increase of 6.7 percent in October 2017 marked its 44th consecutive year of increased cash dividends paid to its stockholders, which places RPM in an elite category of less than half of 1 percent of all publicly-traded U.S. companies. Only 41 other companies, besides RPM, have consecutively paid an increasing annual dividend for this period of time or longer, according to the Mergent Handbook of Dividend Achievers. During this timeframe, the company has paid approximately $2.2 billion in cash dividends to its stockholders. At a share price of $53.00, RPM's dividend yield would be 2.4 percent.
About RPM
RPM International Inc. owns subsidiaries that are world leaders in specialty coatings, sealants, building materials and related services across three segments. RPM’s industrial products include roofing systems, sealants, corrosion control coatings, flooring coatings and other construction chemicals. Industrial companies include Stonhard , Tremco , illbruck , Carboline , Flowcrete , Euclid Chemical and RPM Belgium Vandex . RPM's consumer products are used by professionals and do-it-yourselfers for home maintenance and improvement and by hobbyists. Consumer brands include Rust-Oleum , DAP , Zinsser , Varathane and Testors . RPM’s specialty products include industrial cleaners, colorants, exterior finishes, specialty OEM coatings, edible coatings, restoration services equipment and specialty glazes for the pharmaceutical and food industries. Specialty segment companies include Day-Glo , Dryvit , RPM Wood Finishes , Mantrose-Haeuser , Legend Brands , Kop-Coat and TCI . Additional details can be found at www.RPMinc.com and by following RPM on Twitter at www.twitter.com/RPMintl .
For more information, contact Barry M. Slifstein, vice president – investor relations, at 330-273-5090 or bslifstein@rpminc.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005053/en/
RPM International Inc.
Barry M. Slifstein, 330-273-5090
vice president – investor relations
bslifstein@rpminc.com .
Source: RPM International Inc.