Jackson, Tennessee, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pulling moisture from the air and energy from the sun, 16,000 servings of water per day are produced from a solar product, simply called, the Aldelano Solar WaterMaker™. It’s one of six original designs by Aldelano Solar Cold Chain Solutions to be unveiled at an Open House, Blue Carpet Celebration in Jackson, Tennessee, January 22-23, 2018 .
The Aldelano Solar ColdBox provides temperatures from -10 to 55 degrees Fahrenheit within either a 20 or 40ft shipping container. It is portable and totally off-grid through the power of solar and batteries.
Aldelano’s Founder, Al Hollingsworth, visited Caribbean Islands and met with British Virgin Islands OBE Premier the Honourable D. Orlando Smith, the Deputy Premier and Minister of Natural Resources the Honourable Dr. Kendrick D. Pickering, District 2 Representative the Honourable Melvin M. Turnbull, and other government officials.
Aldelano is a Global leader in Industrial-Grade Solar Technology, which has developed a line of products that provide off-grid refrigeration, water generation and power generation after a natural disaster. The robust designs also solve a global and humanitarian crisis; bringing relief and infrastructure by supplying clean drinking water, refrigeration/freezing cold storage [to avoid food waste], and renewable power to any village or entire community.
The newest designs are the Aldelano Solar PowerPak/Generator™, which can power up to 7 households, and the Aldelano Solar BackPack™, a unit that can be connected to an existing insulated room to provide solar-powered refrigeration and freezing. Existing designs include the flagship Solar ColdBox™, providing industrial sized cold storage including refrigeration and sub-zero freezing, the Solar Chiller™, providing a temperature controlled environment for agriculture and other storage needs, the Solar WaterMaker™, which extracts moisture from the air and purifies it for drinking and the Solar IceMaker™, converting up to 2,300 lbs of ice per day. Also new are design enhancements that include easy access panels, options for casters, expandable power outlets for future customization and component redundancies that help ensure continuous operation.
Aldelano is in the process of shipping Antiqua, Barbuda and British Virgin Islands several Solar Coldboxes, PowerPaks and nearly 100 Solar WaterMakers one month after Aldelano’s Founder, Al Hollingsworth, visited Caribbean Islands and met with British Virgin Islands OBE Premier the Honourable D. Orlando Smith, the Deputy Premier and Minister of Natural Resources the Honourable Dr. Kendrick D. Pickering, District 2 Representative the Honourable Melvin M. Turnbull, and other government officials. Three powerful hurricanes in less than two weeks decimated areas of the Caribbean region, leaving dozens of people dead, millions without power or drinking water and countless homes destroyed.
Now, as those who remain face the reality of rebuilding, the primary focus of each day is basic needs like food, shelter and clean drinking water. Other countries, such as Nigeria, Liberia and Angola, fighting humanitarian disasters, have placed orders with Aldelano to offer people access to clean water and power. In 2017, United Nations coordinator, Stephen O’ Brien issued a plea for help to avoid a catastrophe, saying “the world is facing its greatest humanitarian crisis since 1945, with more than 20 million people across four countries in Africa and the Middle East facing starvation and famine.” Today, the UN says the “situation in Yemen, looks like the Apocalypse.”
Al Hollingsworth, and his wife Hattie, have seen the sickness and disease overseas with their own eyes. Their decades of international mission work, moved them to do more than bring their hearts to people in grave need, but brainstorm ways to return with helping hands. So, when the company created its first solar product and saw its effectiveness, they quickly understood the immensity the technology would have globally.
“Nations are rich in natural resources, yet are poor because they don’t have systems in place to have access to clean water and preserve their food from harvest to market. We are opening people’s eyes to their own resources and empowering them to birth their dreams and visions. People are dying, and our products are a needed solution, not a vanity ‘want’,” according to Hollingsworth. Dr. Douglass Sterrett, Professor of Engineering at University of Tennessee at Martin and former NASA and USAF consultant, recognizes the value of the designs as well. “I have been a part of the project since its inception. The technical challenges were intriguing, but the humanitarian aspect excited me the most. This has the potential to impact the quality of life for many, many people.”
Founders Al and Hattie are especially excited to introduce the company’s designs at a time when our nation recognizes the sacrifices and contributions of African Americans. “The inspiration comes from engineers, scientists, inventors, electricians and others who are involved in the production. When I see someone who looks like me, it makes me [and others] proud, and inspires us all to do great things. We must inspire people by our examples, so they too can desire to become champions of industry as well as the arts,” Al Hollingsworth commented.
About Aldelano Corporation:
Aldelano Corporation has been a leader in contract packaging, specializing in refrigerated supply chain solutions, with plants that service major and Fortune 500 clients that include Kellogg’s, Procter & Gamble, Sunny Delight, American Airlines, Toyota, General Mills, Red Bull and Verizon. Aldelano has built a reputation of dependability and trust and has received numerous awards and accolades. Business acknowledgments include the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC’s) Corporate Plus distinction, the President’s Achievement Recognition Award, City of Los Angeles Minority Global Export Firm of the Year, Businessman of the Year and the Award of Excellence from the United States Department of Commerce.
About Al Hollingsworth:
Al Hollingsworth is a business leader, international speaker, minister, author, and owner of the Aldelano Corporation. A successful entrepreneur, Hollingsworth’s heart is to help others succeed in the visions, dreams, and ideas God gives them. Hollingsworth lobbied in Washington during the civil rights movement and opened the door for disadvantaged businesses to compete for government contracts, becoming one of the first to receive a contract through the 8(a) Program. In the early 70s, Al formed and was President of the Black Businessman’s association in California with 3 other local entrepreneurs. The group worked with their local government in addition to traveling to Washington D.C. several times a year to meet with congressional and state representatives. Hollingsworth worked closely with California’s Governor Michael Brown, and later went on to become the Commissioner of Economic Development for the State of California. He recognized that youth would soon face an economic crisis and wanted to give them an alternative to gangs, drugs, and hopelessness. In response, the Hollingsworth and his wife, Hattie, founded the internationally-acclaimed, Christ-centered B.O.S.S. The Movement youth success training curriculum and its adult component, the Vertical Leap Seminar. The programs’ biblically-based training principles 