MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. (NYSE American: LTS, LTS PrA), announced today that Michael J. Higgins has been appointed as Managing Director, Equity Research at Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc. ("Ladenburg") covering healthcare, based in Ladenburg’s New York office.
David Rosenberg, Co-President and Chief Executive Officer of Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., said, “We are excited to welcome Michael to Ladenburg and are confident that his years of experience will be a valuable addition to our healthcare equity research team. Michael has an impressive track record on both the buy-side and sell-side, and we look forward to leveraging his expertise.”
Mr. Higgins has 14 years of experience as a biopharmaceuticals analyst. Prior to joining Ladenburg, he served as Managing Director, Senior Research Analyst at ROTH Capital Partners and Rodman & Renshaw, LLC. Mr. Higgins began his career in equity research at Dafna Capital in Beverly Hills, California, where he focused on drug launches of biopharmaceutical companies. This followed ten years in pharmaceutical marketing at Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals. Mr. Higgins received a Bachelor of Science in Finance from the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point and a Masters of Business Administration with a focus on Finance and Investment Analysis from Marquette University.
Ladenburg also announced that Rui Galvao, Ph.D. has joined Ladenburg as an Associate within Equity Research. Dr. Galvao will be based in Ladenburg’s New York office.
About Ladenburg
Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. (NYSE American: LTS, LTS PrA) is a publicly-traded diversified financial services company based in Miami, Florida. Ladenburg’s subsidiaries include industry-leading independent broker-dealer firms Securities America, Inc., Triad Advisors, LLC, Securities Service Network, LLC., Investacorp, Inc. and KMS Financial Services, Inc., as well as Premier Trust, Inc., Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management Inc., Highland Capital Brokerage, Inc., a leading independent life insurance brokerage company, Ladenburg Thalmann Annuity Insurance Services LLC, a full-service annuity processing and marketing company, and Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., an investment bank which has been a member of the New York Stock Exchange for over 135 years. The company is committed to investing in the growth of its subsidiaries while respecting and maintaining their individual business identities, cultures, and leadership. For more information, please visit www.ladenburg.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005124/en/
Sard Verbinnen & Co
Emily Claffey/Benjamin Spicehandler
212-687-8080
Source: Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc.