New executives to support rapid customer growth, ensure company success in 2018
SIOUX FALLS, S.D.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- DocuTAP , one of the nation's fastest growing healthcare technology companies and provider of electronic medical records (EMR) and practice management (PM) software for urgent care clinics, is pleased to announce the appointment of Robert Rueckl as Chief Financial Officer and Jared Lisenby as SVP of Sales.
Rueckl and Lisenby will be joining a robust executive team, ready to tackle the unique opportunities of today’s rapidly evolving on-demand healthcare landscape.
“DocuTAP is growing in tandem with the on-demand healthcare space, which has had a massive resurgence,” said Eric McDonald, CEO, DocuTAP. “These new executive hires, in addition to the strong leadership team already assembled, will put us in a prime position to provide urgent care customers with the technology necessary to deliver a superior patient experience and achieve operational excellence in 2018.”
Rueckl, with more than 30 years of experience in finance and operations, joins DocuTAP as CFO to help drive further growth and develop new strategic approaches for the company. A seasoned professional, Rueckl’s extensive experience goes well beyond the realm of finance management, having navigated ever-changing market conditions in public, private-equity and multi-national companies. He has also led acquisitions at software-as-a-service companies in both the CFO and CEO roles.
“A dynamic entrepreneurial sales and business development executive, Jared Lisenby will be another key addition to DocuTAP’s leadership team, building on the success of the last decade,” said Matt Blosl, Chief Revenue Officer, DocuTAP. “Jared’s domain expertise and experience building leading sales organizations will be integral to DocuTAP’s growth and to the success of our clients.”
Before joining DocuTAP, Lisenby served in a similar capacity at PointClear Solutions, Patientco, and most notably Greenway Health, where he worked for nearly 12 years maximizing net new software sales and managing, recruiting and leading the sales team. He knows exactly how to build a team that closely partners with healthcare organizations to ensure clients are able to capture the full value of a comprehensive solution suite.
To learn more about DocuTAP, visit www.docutap.com .
About DocuTAP
DocuTAP is a dynamic HIT company that provides integrated technology solutions to more than 1,400 on-demand healthcare practices and primary care clinics worldwide. Its flagship product, DocuTAP’s EMR and Practice Management software, was created with an innovative approach to workflow. Their complete on-demand healthcare solution includes Clockwise.MD patient engagement technology, revenue cycle management services, and DocuTAP Analytics—a business intelligence tool with custom reports and built-in industry benchmarks. Based in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, DocuTAP is backed by Warburg Pincus, Bessemer Venture Partners and Bluff Point Associates. Craft a better on-demand healthcare experience with DocuTAP. Begin at docutap.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005085/en/
DocuTAP
Ryan Schin, 720-577-5404
docutap@matternow.com
Source: DocuTAP