SAN DIEGO, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Shareholder rights law firm Johnson Fistel, LLP has launched an investigation into whether the board members of Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: HAWK) ("Blackhawk") breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed sale of the Company to Silver Lake and P2 Capital Partners. Blackhawk provides a range of prepaid gift, telecom, and debit cards in physical and electronic forms; and related prepaid products and payment services in the United States and internationally.
On January 16, 2018, Blackhawk announced that it had signed a definitive merger agreement with Silver Lake and P2 Capital Partners. Under the terms of the agreement, Blackhawk shareholders would receive $45.25 in cash for each share of Blackhawk common stock.
The investigation concerns whether the Blackhawk board failed to satisfy its duties to the Company shareholders, including whether the board adequately pursued alternatives to the acquisition and whether the board obtained the best price possible for Blackhawk shares of common stock. Nationally recognized Johnson Fistel is investigating whether the proposed deal price represents adequate consideration, especially given that the price target for one Wall Street analyst is $51.00 per share.
If you are a shareholder of Blackhawk and believe the proposed buyout price is too low or you're interested in learning more about the investigation or your legal rights and remedies, please contact lead analyst Jim Baker ( jimb@johnsonfistel.com ) at 619-814-4471 . If emailing, please include a phone number.
About Johnson Fistel, LLP:
Johnson Fistel, LLP is a nationally recognized shareholder rights law firm with offices in California, New York and Georgia. The firm represents individual and institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits. For more information about the firm and its attorneys, please visit http://www.johnsonfistel.com . Attorney advertising. Past results do not guarantee future outcomes.
Contact:
Johnson Fistel, LLP
Jim Baker, 619-814-4471
jimb@johnsonfistel.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blackhawk-hawk-alert-johnson-fistel-investigates-proposed-sale-of-blackhawk-network-holdings-inc-are-shareholders-getting-a-fair-price-300583113.html
SOURCE Johnson Fistel, LLP