New firm strengthens commitment to local benefit market
MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Two local, independent employee benefits firms, SevenHills Benefit Partners and The Cleveland Company have merged to offer broader services to local clients. The new firm, SevenHills Cleveland Benefit Partners, brings together generations of expertise in meeting the needs of area small and mid-sized businesses.
“This is not a sale, but a true merger of two strong agencies as equal partners,” said Christopher Schneeman, CEO. “By joining forces, we add depth and scale that allow us to help our main street clients continue to navigate the evolving employee benefit market.”
SevenHills has roots in St. Paul, continuing a family legacy that began in the 1920’s. With a focus on group and employee benefits, the agency has grown to be highly respected for innovation and advocacy.
“We’ve seen a trend of agencies selling their business to national firms. Because we have a large base of small and mid-sized clients, we know the importance of having a local team who can solve problems and help meet business goals,” noted John Cleveland, CFO. “Since both agencies have had a long-standing commitment to local businesses and years of successful collaboration, it’s a natural fit.”
With roots in Bloomington for two generations, The Cleveland Company helps employers offer affordable, comprehensive benefit plans that people understand. A full-service firm, The Cleveland Company, has expertise in effective benefit design, communication, compliance, administration and HR support.
“Combined, our team offers centuries of experience and commitment to customer care. It’s an exciting time for us and our clients,” added Michelle Maher, COO.
SevenHills Cleveland Benefit Partners
The new company, SevenHills Cleveland Benefit Partners, will employ 25 individuals with plans to expand. The current management team, administration and support services will remain unchanged. A new office location will be announced soon.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005066/en/
For SevenHills Cleveland Benefit Partners
Sonja Sorrel, 515-650-7818
sonja@deltadesigndsm.com
Source: SevenHills Cleveland Benefit Partners