NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Gen II Fund Services, LLC, the industry's largest U.S. based, independent Private Equity Fund Administrator, is pleased to announce the following two team members have been promoted to Principal.
Shawn McMenimen, Principal, has senior level oversight responsibility for Gen II's client service teams and is directly involved in managing key client engagements. Shawn also has responsibility for the oversight over Gen II's compliance department. Shawn has over 17 years of private equity fund administration experience.
Stephen Ho, Principal, is responsible for running Gen II's San Francisco service center. His professional team provides fund administration services for clients throughout the western region of the United States. Stephen has more than 15 years of private equity fund administration experience.
"We are delighted to make this announcement today" said Steven Millner, Managing Principal of Gen II. "Shawn and Stephen have played a large role in Gen II's growth in Boston and San Francisco and have been instrumental in deepening our team's experience and client service capability."
Norman Leben, Managing Principal commented, "These promotions are a reflection of our commitment to our team's personal growth and development and to ensuring that Gen II's clients are serviced by the fund administration industry's top talent. We look forward to working with our new Principals for many years to come."
"Shawn and Stephen epitomize the strength of talent Gen II brings to client services nationwide. In addition to being tremendous fund administrators, they are both greatly admired for their unique achievements," said Steven Alecia, Chief Client Officer.
Gen II Fund Services, LLC ("Gen II") is the largest U.S. based, independent private equity fund administrator, covering over $170B of private capital and reporting to over 9,000 LPs on behalf of our clients. Gen II offers private fund sponsors the best-in-class combination of people, process and technology, enabling GPs to most effectively manage their operational infrastructure, financial reporting and investor communications.
The Gen II team is the most experienced and longest tenured team in the private equity fund administration industry, with broad product expertise across buyout, infrastructure, energy, credit, real estate, co-investment, hybrid funds, funds of funds, feeder funds, venture capital, and managed accounts. For more information, please visit www.gen2fund.com .
Contact
Jeff Gendel
Principal – Business Development
Gen II Fund Services, LLC
212-408-0501
jgendel@gen2fund.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gen-ii-fund-services-promotes-two-team-members-to-principal-300587591.html
SOURCE Gen II Fund Services, LLC