NEW YORK, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Forbes Books announces the third release from former hospital CEO Dr. Josh Luke titled Health-Wealth: Is healthcare bankrupting your business? 9 steps to financial recovery. Health-Wealth exposes secrets of the healthcare industry in the name of reducing healthcare costs and provides a turn-key guide for corporations to begin saving up to 30 percent annually. Luke's prior book, Ex-Acute: A former hospital CEO tells all reached #1 on Amazon's best seller list and helps Americans learn how to save thousands on healthcare.
Steve Forbes will join Dr. Luke as Luke embarks on a launch week that includes presenting to a distinguished group of Fortune 500 executives and top media at Forbes on 5 th private club in New York City prior to the launch party and a photo shoot in Times Square where the book will be featured on the big screen.
"I am honored that Forbes recruited me to publish Health-Wealth and invited me to be a featured contributor," Dr. Luke said. "There are businesses that have proven that you can reduce healthcare costs for your company and employees, but they remain a well-kept secret. I scoured the country and identified nine simple steps for companies to end the annual 10% health insurance premium increase."
Luke, who is well-known as a LinkedIn featured writer and personality is now also a featured columnist and blogger on Forbes.com . He is a well-known keynote speaker and podcast host known as America's Healthcare Affordability Authority.
"Forbes Books relayed to me that Health-Wealth has a realistic shot of jumping onto the best seller list on launch day so has asked me to encourage anyone planning to buy the book to do so between 1:00-3:00 pm EST on January 18, 2018. We will mail a signed copy of my prior book to anyone who purchases in that time frame."
To receive the free book individuals need to forward proof of purchase email time stamped between 1-3 pm EST on January 18, 2018 to Info@Health-Wealth.com . To listen to the podcast or learn more about Health-Wealth, visit www.Health-Wealth.com .
Andy Shearer
ashearer@forbesbooks.com
(917) 742-9795
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/healthcare-futurist-dr-josh-luke-releases-new-book-from-forbes-books-on-reducing-healthcare-spending-named-to-forbes-coaches-council-300584066.html
SOURCE Dr. Josh Luke