 35 a.m. ET Share 
Network bid more than the current rights holders NBC and CBS USA Today Sports Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Nick Foles is interviewed by Fox Sports announcer Terry Bradshaw. 21st Century Fox Executive Chairman Rupert Murdoch has indicated that live sports will be a large part of Fox’s future. It is also retaining ownership of its national cable sports channel Fox Sports 1. 
By Joe Flint 
21st Century Fox Inc.’s FOXA, -0.72% FOX, -0.68% Fox Broadcasting is wrapping up a deal with the National Football League for rights to its Thursday night package of games, according to people familiar with the matter. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Fox is expected to pay significantly more than the $450 million that current rights holders NBC CMCSA, +0.86% and CBS Corp. CBS, -0.56% paid this past season, the people said. An announcement could come as early as Wednesday morning. 
Although ratings for Thursday night football were down this past season by 12%, it still averaged nearly 12 million viewers and usually beats all competing programming. Ratings were also down for the NFL’s Monday night and Sunday afternoon packages. Overall, ratings were down for NFL football by almost 10% this season. 
However, NFL football accounted for 33 of the top-50 most-watched shows last year, according to Nielsen and the league. Fox’s deal for Thursday night football comes just months after 21st Century Fox Chief Executive James Murdoch publicly criticized the NFL for having too much product on television and causing the erosion in ratings over the last two seasons. 
Read: Colin Kaepernick was just named GQ’s ‘Citizen of the Year’ 
However, the Fox network has been struggling in prime time for the past several years and the addition of Thursday night football will certainly boost its audience and give it a big platform to promote other shows. In addition, 21st Century Fox’s recently announced deal to sell the bulk of its entertainment assets to Walt Disney Co. DIS, -1.28% , including its television production unit, for $52.4 billion means it will be in need of content for the broadcast network it is keeping.