Shawn "Jay-Z" Carter grew up in the projects in Brooklyn. His family struggled to make ends meet and he started dealing drugs as a teen .
As of the end of 2017, the business mogul and hip-hop artist is worth $810 million , and he and his wife Beyoncé are a billion-dollar couple .
He's learned some key money lessons along the way, some of which are hidden inside his lyrics . Here are three:
Samir Hussein | Getting Images "I bought every V12 engine / Wish I could take it back to the beginnin' / I coulda bought a place in DUMBO before it was DUMBO / For like 2 million / That same building today is worth 25 million / Guess how I'm feelin'? Dumbo" 
Jay-Z has dropped millions on his car collection . But cars are a depreciating asset: The moment you drive a new car off the lot, its value goes down by about 20 percent .
A better way to invest his money may have been in real estate . As he points out on this track, his home city of Brooklyn has become one of the trendiest neighborhoods in New York City.
Even if you can't invest in properties like Jay-Z can, real estate can be a valuable asset "for a great many people," says legendary investor Warren Buffett . Other financial advisors call home-ownership " an escalator to wealth ."
show chapters The smart strategies Jay-Z’s built a massive business with      11:41 AM ET Fri, 30 June 2017 | 01:22 " You wanna know what's more important than throwin' away money at a strip club? Credit" 
He's right. Credit is key.
You credit score , represented as a number between 300 and 850, will allow you to make big purchases later on, such as insurance, a car or a home. The lower your score, the less trustworthy you seem to potential creditors, which could mean a higher interest rate or that you don't get the loan at all.
You can check your credit score for free using sites like Credit Karma and Credit.com . If you're not pleased with your number, read up on ways to improve it .
show chapters Beyonce wants to pay for your college — here's why      12:37 PM ET Wed, 26 April 2017 | 00:46 " I'm not a businessman, I'm a business, man" 
As his lyrics make clear, Jay-Z is not just an entertainer. He's a full-fledged entrepreneur .
The rapper-mogul started his own label, Roc-A-Fella Records, in 1995 with the money he got from a deal with Payday Records. Since, he has started a clothing line that was sold for $204 million , opened an upscale sports bar and restaurant in Manhattan and launched music-streaming service Tidal .
Thanks to his entrepreneurial success, Jay-Z is the second richest hip-hop artist in the world . Like most wealthy people, he is not content with just one stream of income , and that strategy has served him well.
Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook ! 
Don't miss: Here's the 'most important thing' multi-millionaire Jay-Z wants to teach his kids 

Video by Andrea Kramar 
show chapters Chance the Rapper's unconventional rise to success      12:14 PM ET Thu, 24 Aug 2017 | 01:33