KATY, Texas, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Igloo Products Corp. ("Igloo"), the industry leader in cooler design and manufacturing, is pleased to announce the appointment of Brandon Davis as Senior Vice President of Sales. Davis will be responsible for global leadership of Igloo sales, developing new business opportunities and creating solutions to exceed customer's expectations for both the Igloo and Cool Gear brands.
Prior to joining Igloo, Davis worked at Energizer Holdings Inc., most recently serving as Chief Business Officer. During his tenure at Energizer he served in successive leadership roles where he was instrumental in the profitable growth of the company. His market expertise and industry relationships will be integral in developing the business to expand on the Igloo legacy.
"Brandon brings a proven record of leading organizational transformations, exceptional sales growth and cross functional commercial business leadership to Igloo. His diverse leadership and execution across categories, channels and brands aligns with our strategic initiatives to drive growth across the hydration and cooler categories," said Mark Parrish, CEO and President, Igloo.
"After spending many years growing with a successful organization, it's an honor to join such an iconic Brand like Igloo," said Davis. "There is tremendous potential in this industry and it's an exciting time to connect with an audience that's been loyal to this Brand for years. I look forward to being a part of the Igloo team."
About Igloo Products Corp.
Texas-based Igloo Products Corp. is an international designer, manufacturer and marketer of coolers, drink containers and supporting accessories. For 70 years, the Igloo brand has been synonymous with quality, durability and innovation since originating the cooler category in 1947 and remains the number one cooler brand worldwide today. Offering more than 500 different products, Igloo products are sold by more than 110 thousand retail storefronts around the world. For more information, visit www.igloocoolers.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/igloo-products-corp-appoints-senior-vice-president-of-sales-300589105.html
SOURCE Igloo Products Corp.