Wang to head Emerging Markets and China (EMC) research
MONTREAL--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Alpine Macro, an independent investment strategy research firm dedicated to providing actionable analysis, insights, forecasts and investment recommendations, has announced that veteran China and Asia Strategist Yan Wang has joined their team.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005913/en/
Yan Wang, Partner and Chief Emerging Markets/China Strategist, Alpine Macro. (Photo: Business Wire)
As a Partner and Chief Emerging Markets/China Strategist, Yan will be heading Alpine Macro’s Emerging Markets and China (EMC) research and will spearhead Alpine Macro’s next product, the EMC Strategy, which will be launched in due course. Previously, Yan spent 15 years at BCA Research where he was the firm’s Chief China Strategist and Managing Editor of BCA China Investment Strategy from 2005 to 2017.
“We are very excited to have Yan as the newest addition to our research team,” says Chen Zhao, Partner and Chief Global Strategist at Alpine Macro. Chen had previously launched BCA Research’s China Investment Strategy and Emerging Markets Strategy services and worked directly with Yan starting in 2002. “Yan is one of the best China and Asia experts in the world, and his research is well known globally for its thoroughness, objectivity and provocative ideas.”
“Yan will bring authenticity and depth to our China and Emerging Markets research. His knowledge on China and other Emerging Markets is enormous. I am sure our clients will benefit from his experience and knowledge tremendously,” says Tony Boeckh, CEO and Editor-in-Chief of Alpine Macro.
“I am beyond thrilled to be embarking on this new venture with my old colleagues and friends, and providing research, analysis and views on China and Emerging Markets to clients around the world,” says Wang.
Alpine Macro publishes investment strategy research on a weekly basis, including the weekly Global Strategy Report and the Monthly Macro Report as well as special reports, feature reports, idea alerts, quarterly outlooks, and webcasts. Please contact info@alpinemacro.com to request more information.
About Alpine Macro: Founded in 2017, Alpine Macro is an independent global investment strategy research firm based in Montreal, Canada. Alpine Macro focuses on the analysis of major macro-economic forces and specializes in forecasting the direction of global financial markets, while providing actionable recommendations on investment strategy and asset allocation.
Please visit www.alpinemacro.com for more details.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005913/en/
For additional information:
Alpine Macro
Jeremy Wiseman, 514-558-1414
Managing Director
info@alpinemacro.com
or
For media inquiries:
Goldman Communications
Keera Hart, 416-322-2863
Senior Account Director
keera@goldman-communications.com
Source: Alpine Macro