PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: SBGI) ("Sinclair") announced that Robert Truman has been promoted to General Manager of KATU (ABC) and KUNP (Univision) in Portland, Oregon. The announcement was made by Steve Marks, EVP & Chief Operating Officer of Sinclair's television group.
In making the announcement, Mr. Marks said, "Robert has been with Sinclair for five years and in the television business for nearly 20. His leadership in Boise has been terrific and we are confident that his success there will translate into great successes at our Portland stations."
"I am very familiar with the Portland market and am thrilled to be moving to one of my favorite cities," commented Mr. Truman. "I'm even more excited to work with the high performing and talented team at KATU and KUNP, as they are a model for the company in so many ways. I'm confident that together we will take the Sinclair vision of connecting people with content everywhere to a whole new level."
Since 2014, Mr. Truman has been the General Manager at Sinclair-owned stations KBOI (CBS) and KYUU (CW Plus) in Boise, Idaho, where he joined Sinclair in 2012 and served as General Sales Manager. He has worked in sales at various television stations in Boise, Seattle and Salt Lake City since 2000. Mr. Truman holds a Bachelor of Arts in communications from the Washington State University.
Sinclair is one of the largest and most diversified television broadcasting companies in the country. Pro forma for the Tribune acquisition (before any related divestitures), the Company will own, operate and/or provide services to 233 television stations in 108 markets. The Company has multiple emerging networks as well as stations affiliated with all the major networks. Sinclair is a leading local news provider in the country and a producer of live sports content. Sinclair's content is delivered via multiple-platforms, including over-the-air, multi-channel video program distributors, and digital platforms. The Company regularly uses its website as a key source of Company information which can be accessed at www.sbgi.net .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sinclair-promotes-robert-truman-to-general-manager-in-portland-oregon-300576503.html
SOURCE Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.