COSTA MESA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- International law firm Dorsey & Whitney LLP announced today that it has named Securities & Financial Services Litigation Partner Eric J. Troutman as head of the Firm’s Southern California office effective January 18, 2018. He replaces former Southern California Office Head Michael Tenerelli.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006329/en/
Dorsey is pleased to announce that it has named Securities & Financial Services Litigation Partner Eric J. Troutman as head of the Firm's Southern California Office effective January 18, 2018. (Photo: Dorsey & Whitney LLP)
Mr. Troutman is one of the country’s preeminent Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) defense attorneys, having served as lead defense counsel on over 50 nationwide TCPA class actions and having handled hundreds of individual TCPA cases. He also “wrote the book” on TCPA defense, having co-authored the nation’s first comprehensive practice guide on the subject. In addition, he has helped spearhead the banking industry’s push for TCPA clarity before the Federal Communications Commission and has assisted on numerous appeals addressing hot-button TCPA issues.
“I am very pleased to have Eric as Head of our Southern California office,” noted Dorsey Managing Partner Ken Cutler. “He is an elite attorney who understands the Dorsey culture and its client service mission. I am confident that Eric’s leadership will continue to drive the expansion of Dorsey’s reach in California.”
“This will be fun,” Mr. Troutman quipped on taking on the position. “Dorsey is a fantastic firm with a sterling reputation and I see great growth potential in Southern California. As we introduce more clients to Dorsey’s tremendous capabilities here and around the world, we will continue to strengthen the Dorsey brand.”
About Dorsey & Whitney LLP
Clients have relied on Dorsey since 1912 as a valued business partner. With locations across the United States and in Canada, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, Dorsey provides an integrated, proactive approach to its clients' legal and business needs. Dorsey represents a number of the world's most successful companies from a wide range of industries, including leaders in the banking, energy, food and agribusiness, health care, mining and natural resources, and public-private project development sectors, as well as major non-profit and government entities.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006329/en/
Dorsey & Whitney LLP
Jeri Longtin-Kloss, 612-492-5315
longtin.kloss.jeri@dorsey.com
Source: Dorsey & Whitney LLP