Kent, Washington, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Head lice infamously cause stress, disgust and embarrassment for millions of parents whose kids get infested each year. And lice outbreaks increase during school breaks when children spend more time together and share hats and scarves.
Lice Clinics of America - Kent, ( http://www.liceclinicskent.com ) is opening just in time for the end of winter break with a safe, fast effective lice treatment that works in about an hour. The clinic provides screening, diagnosis and treatment options for people infested with head lice using AirAllé device, an FDA-cleared medical device that kills head lice and lice eggs using just heated air.
Clinic owner Bender Cunningham learned about the challenge of dealing with head lice the way many parents do when his children came home from school with head lice. “We were all horrified,” he said. “And the lice treatment business we found was crowded, offered no privacy, and no one answered our questions. About two months later, lice struck us again!”
A year or so later I was reading about a business opportunity with Lice Clinics of America,” Bender said. “I immediately said to my fiancé Rachel, we should really look into this. Can you imagine being able to take care of families and not have them deal with what we did? Make the experience better, make families more comfortable.”
That’s exactly what Bender and Rachel have done with Lice Clinics of America – Kent. In addition to their clinic business, Bender is one half of the Bender and Molly Morning Show on 106.1 KISS-FM, and Rachel is a Senior Partner Resources Associate at Starbucks. Their clinic is located at 6632 191 st Place, Suite E-107. AirAllé treatments take about an hour and come with a 30-day guarantee when all family members are treated or screened for head lice.
With more than 300 clinics in 34 countries, Lice Clinics of America ( www.LiceClinicsOfAmerica.com ) is the largest network of professional head-lice-treatment centers in the world. Lice Clinics of America and AirAllé ( www.airalle.com ) are brands owned by Larada Sciences, Inc., which is headquartered in Murray, Utah.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4e053abb-7722-46d4-8232-68e0ac95b9e9
Bender Cunningham Lice Clinics of America 253-499-3213 bender@liceclinicskent.com
Source:Lice Clinicsof America