COLUMBIA FALLS, Mont., Jan. 26, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ViZn Energy Systems, Inc. (“ViZn”) announced today that Stephen Bonner, who became Chairman of its Board of Directors on January 1, has also assumed the role of President and interim CEO following the resignation of Ron Van Dell.
“The ViZn vision is compelling - a breakthrough battery technology that is safe, cost effective, and able to perform both power and energy services without degradation for 20 years. It is the missing link between accelerating sources of non-dispatchable renewable electricity and efficient delivery to the energy consumer. The zinc-redox flow battery is far superior to the constrained lithium-ion alternative,” Bonner said.
“There is nothing like this today, and I am honored to join the ViZn family to further commercialize and scale this innovation,” Bonner continued. “We appreciate Ron Van Dell’s contributions to ViZn and wish him every success in the future.”
Bonner was a Director as well as President and CEO of Cancer Treatment Centers of America for over 13 years. He is currently an advisor to four private equity firms as well as an Entrepreneur in Residence at The Harvard Business School. He is an investor, mentor, and advisor to many business and social entrepreneurs.
He earned his Bachelor of Arts from Amherst College and his Juris Doctor from Mitchell Hamline College of Law.
About ViZn Energy Systems, Inc.
ViZn Energy Systems, Inc. is an energy storage leader that is deploying a highly versatile zinc-redox flow battery solution for utility, commercial and industrial, and microgrid applications worldwide. The company was founded in 2009 to commercialize an energy storage solution that can perform a broad array of power and energy services for up to 20 years while also providing superior return on investment (ROI) on total system costs. The ViZn solution is safe, reliable, cost effective, and scalable to meet the needs of today’s ever-changing energy landscape. For more information, visit: www.ViZnEnergy.com
For additional information:
Press Contact:
Wendy Prabhu
Mercom Communications, a division of Mercom Capital Group
1-512-215-4452
ViZn@mercomcapital.com
ViZn Energy Systems Inc. Contact:
Mike Grunow / VP Marketing
ViZn Energy Systems, Inc.
1- 630-841-8710
mike.grunow@ViZnenergy.com
Source: ViZn Energy Systems