DIXON, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jeremiah Smith, Senior Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer of First Northern Community Bancorp and First Northern Bank (OTCQB:FNRN), is pleased to announce that Kevin M. Spink, currently the Company’s Senior Vice President/Corporate Controller, is being promoted to Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer, effective February 1.
Prior to joining First Northern in 2015, Spink spent seven years with KPMG, LLP where he gained significant audit expertise in the banking and finance industries, and five years with Rabobank where his last position was Senior Vice President/Chief Accounting Officer.
In his new position, Spink will be responsible for the overall management and oversight of the Company’s Finance Department; which encompasses financial reporting, corporate investments, financial analysis, and preparation of the Company’s audited annual report. Spink will sit on the Bank’s Asset/Liability Committee, and be a participating member of the Deposit Product Pricing Committee, Community Reinvestment Act Committee, Information Services Steering Committee and Profit Sharing Committee. He will also be a member of the Bank’s Senior Management Team and will participate in strategic planning.
Spink has a B.S. in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting, and he is a Certified Public Accountant, licensed in the state of California. In 2012, Spink graduated from the Pacific Coast Banking School at the University of Washington in Seattle. He is also a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
“We are very fortunate to have Kevin on the Senior Management Team,” Smith said. “He is a consummate professional, an accomplished CPA, and a strong leader. I look forward to working with Kevin is his new role.”
Spink resides in West Sacramento with his wife, Lauren, and their two young daughters.
About First Northern Bank
As the Sacramento Region’s local leader in small-business lending and customer satisfaction, First Northern specializes in relationship banking. Experts are available in small-business, commercial, real estate and agribusiness lending, as well as mortgage loans. The Bank is an SBA Preferred Lender. Non-FDIC insured Investment and Brokerage Services are available at every branch location, through First Northern Advisors, including: Auburn, Davis, Dixon, Fairfield, Roseville, Sacramento, Vacaville, West Sacramento, Winters, and Woodland. The Bank has a full-service Trust Department in Sacramento and a commercial lending office in Walnut Creek. Real estate mortgage and small-business loan officers are available by appointment at any of the Bank’s 10 branches. First Northern is rated as a Veribanc “Blue Ribbon” Bank for the earnings period of September 30, 2017 ( www.veribanc.com ). The Bank can be found on the Web at www.thatsmybank.com , on Facebook and on LinkedIn .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may include certain " " about First Northern Community Bancorp (the "Company"). These are based on management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these risk factors is contained in the Company's most recent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, each as it may be amended from time to time, which identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made. For further information regarding the Company, please read the Company's reports filed with the SEC and available at www.sec.gov .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006808/en/
First Northern Community Bancorp & First Northern Bank
Jeremiah Z. Smith, 707-678-3041
SEVP/Chief Operating Officer
Source: First Northern Community Bancorp