NEW YORK, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Siris Capital Group, LLC ("Siris"), a leading private equity firm focused on making control investments in data, telecommunications, technology and technology-enabled business service companies, today announced that Bethany Mayer has joined Siris as an executive partner. Ms. Mayer was most recently senior vice president of Keysight Technologies and president of Keysight's Ixia Solutions group. In her new role at Siris, Ms. Mayer will work closely with the firm's investment professionals and other executive partners to identify and validate potential investment opportunities for Siris as well as assist in the oversight and operations of Siris' portfolio companies.
Frank Baker, Co-Founder of Siris Capital, commented, "Bethany is an incredibly accomplished, results-oriented leader with a proven track record of growth and operational improvement in both large and small technology companies. Bethany has been instrumental in helping companies transition to their next phase of innovation and we are confident that she will be a natural fit and invaluable asset to the Siris executive partner team and our portfolio companies."
With more than 25 years of industry experience and senior leadership roles at global technology corporations, Ms. Mayer brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise in both the software and hardware sectors. Ms. Mayer previously served as the president and chief executive officer of Ixia beginning in September 2014, prior to its acquisition by Keysight, where she was responsible for driving all aspects of Ixia's revenue, strategy and product direction. In 2017, Ms. Mayer was awarded Global Leader of the Year by Women in IT due to her leadership as a CEO. In 2015, Ms. Mayer was named by CRN as a Top 25 Disruptor in the technology industry due to her experience leading breakthrough technology developments including Software Defined Networking and Network Function Virtualization.
Prior to joining Ixia, Ms. Mayer was senior vice president and general manager, Network Functions Virtualization, for Hewlett Packard, Inc., where she led the company's Network Function Virtualization initiative. Ms. Mayer also served as senior vice president and general manager of HP's Networking Business unit, where, under her leadership, the group delivered 12 consecutive quarters of growth. Prior to that, she was vice president, marketing and alliances, for HP's Enterprise Servers Storage and Networking Group. Earlier in her career, Ms. Mayer served as senior vice president, worldwide marketing and corporate development, at Blue Coat Systems, and held roles at Cisco Systems, Apple Computer, Lockheed Martin and a number of smaller technology companies.
Ms. Mayer holds a bachelor's degree from Santa Clara University and an MBA from California State University, Monterey Bay.
About Siris Capital Group
Siris Capital is a leading private equity firm focused on making control investments in data, telecommunications, technology and technology-enabled business service companies in North America. Integral to Siris' investment approach is its partnership with exceptional senior operating executives, or executive partners, who work with Siris on a consulting basis to identify, validate and operate investment opportunities. Their significant involvement allows Siris to partner with management to add value both operationally and strategically. To learn more, visit us at www.siriscapital.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bethany-mayer-joins-siris-capital-group-as-executive-partner-300576771.html
SOURCE Siris Capital Group, LLC