BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Regions Bank today announced that Christopher Honn has joined the Healthcare group as Managing Director for Senior Housing with an emphasis on clients operating assisted living and memory care facilities. He will be based in the company’s Chicago office.
“We are thrilled Chris has agreed to join our team,” said Alec Blanc, Managing Director, Healthcare Banking. “He arrives with a deep knowledge of the financial products, structures, and clients in this important space. We expect him to have an immediate and transformational impact on our senior housing initiatives.”
Honn has more than 30 years of experience in the financial services industry, with an extensive background providing debt solutions to clients in the senior housing and healthcare industries. Honn most recently was Senior Managing Director for Berkadia Commercial Mortgage in Chicago. Prior to that, he served for more than 12 years as Director of Fannie Mae’s Seniors Housing Program where he focused on debt financing. Honn previously served on the Board of the American Seniors Housing Association. He received a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from Illinois State University.
Regions is a recognized market leader in middle-market and small to mid-cap healthcare and tax-exempt financing. Regions’ dedicated Healthcare bankers bring deep industry knowledge, experience, insight and understanding to support clients’ growth and development. Regions’ relationship-oriented approach offers for-profit, not-for-profit, and private equity sponsors the senior level focus and attention necessary to achieve innovative solutions, seamless execution, and timely, professional service.
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF), with $123 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation’s largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,500 banking offices and 1,900 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at www.regions.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005177/en/
Regions Financial Corporation
Evelyn Mitchell, 205-264-4551
www.regionsbanknews.com
Regions News on Twitter: @RegionsNews
Source: Regions Financial Corporation