NORCROSS, Ga., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ace Industries, a leader in the material handling industry, today announced the appointment of Lance White to national sales manager and Bryan Scott as national service manager.
Following a year of unprecedented growth, Ace Industries Inc. begins 2018 with the promotion of key leadership roles to accommodate expansion to a nationwide service footprint. With a strong presence in the Southern United States for 85 years, Ace now widens its base to include Northern, Mid-Western and Western territories, opening an impressive nine new service branches in 2017, with more planned for 2018.
Lance White has enjoyed a focused career selling rigging products to heavy industrial contractors and fabricators and will provide leadership for a high-performing sales team.
"Lance is passionate about our business and the needs of our customers. He has a longstanding track record of solutions-based selling and fanatical customer advocacy, along with a positive coaching and mentoring management style. He has the talent and skills needed to lead us into the next big phase," says Dan Carmichael, vice president of sales & business development.
Bryan Scott has a proven track record of leadership both at a local level and more recently throughout the Gulf Coast region.
"Bryan does what's right and upholds the level of integrity for which Ace is known. With his exceptional work in management, Bryan is poised for nothing but success as national service manager and I have complete confidence that he will lead with dedication, determination and drive," says Claude Owens, vice president of operations.
ABOUT ACE INDUSTRIES
Ace Industries is a leader in the material handling industry with over 30,000 customers that depend on a unique offering of over 100 crane and hoist brands. Founded in 1932, Ace is one of the largest companies in the U.S. to perform industrial crane and hoist inspections, preventative maintenance, engineering, in-plant services and systems integration and distributes hoist parts, synthetic slings and lifting devices from 29 locations nationwide.
Media Contact:
Phone: 503-812-0265
Email: marketing@aceindustries.com
Related Links
Ace Industries
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/numerous-new-hires-and-promotions-as-ace-industries-us-expansion-heats-up-300582924.html
SOURCE Ace Industries Inc.