HUNTLEY, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Centric Medical, a division of Life Spine, Inc., which focuses on developing surgical implants for the treatment of distal extremity pathology announced today the FDA 510(k) clearance of the new Foot and Ankle Plating System. This clearance offers multiple surgical solutions by Centric Medical, to be used in Foot & Ankle reconstruction procedures.
The Centric Medical Foot and Ankle Plating System is comprised of a variety of plates and screws intended to stabilize and fixate bone for a myriad of procedures. The low-profile plates and self-drilling and self-tapping screws were designed to minimize soft tissue disruption and irritation. They are offered in non-sterile, single use implantable components and are provided in a multitude of sizes and shapes which include plates specifically designed for metatarsal phalangeal fusions, lapidus fusions, midfoot fusions and calcaneal slide osteotomies.
“The new Centric Medical Foot and Ankle Plating System is an integral and essential system which adds to a portfolio previously comprised of novel technologies. When paired with our recently FDA cleared Cannulated Screw Internal Fixation System, and our existing OSTEO-LINK ® DBM biologics product, we have the potential for excellent clinical outcomes,” said Mariusz Knap, Vice President of Marketing for Life Spine. “As one of the fastest-growing, most innovative companies in our space it is crucial to our surgeons and patients that we continue to advance our offerings.”
About Centric Medical
Centric Medical is dedicated to improving the quality of life for patients with distal extremity symptomatology, increasing procedural efficiency and efficacy through innovative design, uncompromising quality standards, and the most technologically advanced manufacturing platforms. Centric Medical, which is privately held, is based in Huntley, Illinois. For more information, please visit: http://www.centricmedical.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006417/en/
For Centric Medical
Mr. Omar Faruqi
Chief Financial Officer
ofaruqi@lifespine.com
847-884-6117
Source: Centric Medical