LITTLE FALLS, New Jersey, January 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Ceragon Networks Ltd. (NASDAQ: CRNT), the #1 wireless backhaul specialist, today is providing details of the conference call for its fourth quarter and full year 2017 financial results. The Company will issue a press release announcing its results during pre-market hours on Monday, February 12, 2018.
A conference call will follow beginning at 9:00 a.m. EST. Investors are invited to join the company's teleconference by calling (USA) (800) 288-8960 or international +1 (612) 234-9960 from 8:50 a.m. EST. The call-in lines will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis.
Investors can also listen to the call live via the Internet by accessing Ceragon Networks' website at the investors' page: https://www.ceragon.com/about-ceragon/investor-relations/events-webcasts/ selecting the webcast link, and following the registration instructions.
If you are unable to join us live, the replay numbers are: (USA) (800) 475-6701 (International) +1 320-365-3844, Access Code 442462. A replay of both the call and the webcast will be available through March 12, 2018.
About Ceragon Networks Ltd.
Ceragon Networks Ltd. (NASDAQ: CRNT) is the #1 wireless backhaul specialist. We help operators and other service providers worldwide increase operational efficiency and enhance end customers' quality of experience with innovative wireless backhaul solutions. Our customers include wireless service providers, public safety organizations, government agencies and utility companies, which use our solutions to deliver 4G, mission-critical multimedia services and other applications at high reliability and speed. Ceragon's unique multicore technology provides highly reliable, high-capacity 4G wireless backhaul with minimal use of spectrum, power and other resources. It enables increased productivity, as well as simple and quick network modernization. We deliver a range of professional services that ensure efficient network rollout and optimization to achieve the highest value for our customers. Our solutions are deployed by more than 460 service providers, as well as hundreds of private network owners, in more than 130 countries.
Join the Discussion:
https://www.linkedin.com/companies/14470
https://www.facebook.com/ceragonnetworks/
https://twitter.com/Ceragon
https://www.youtube.com/user/CeragonNetworks?feature=mhum
http://blog.ceragon.com/blog
Ceragon Networks® and FibeAir® are registered trademarks of Ceragon Networks Ltd. in the United States and other countries. CERAGON ® is a trademark of Ceragon Networks Ltd., registered in various countries. Other names mentioned are owned by their respective holders.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains statements concerning Ceragon's future prospects that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs, expectations and assumptions of
Ceragon's management. Examples of forward-looking statements include: projections of revenues, net income, gross margin, capital expenditures and liquidity, competitive pressures, growth prospects, product development, financial resources, cost savings and other financial matters. You may identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "may", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "targets", "expects", "intends", "potential" or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with a decline in revenues; the risks relating to the concentration of Ceragon's business in India, Latin America and in developing nations and the political, economic and regulatory risks from doing business in those regions, including potential currency restrictions; the risk associated with a change in Ceragon's gross margin as a result of changes in the geographic mix of revenues; the risk associated with the loss of a single customer or customer group, which represents a significant portion of Ceragon's revenues; the risk associated with Ceragon's failure to effectively compete with other wireless equipment providers; and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Ceragon's Annual Report on Form 20-F and Ceragon's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that represent our views only as of the date they are made and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Tanya Solomon
Ceragon Networks
Tel: +972-3-543-1163
tanyas@ceragon.com
Investor Contact:
Claudia Gatlin
Ceragon Networks
Tel. +1-212-830-9080
claudiag@ceragon.com
SOURCE Ceragon Networks Ltd