CLEVELAND, Ohio, Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Innovest Global Inc. (OTC PINK:IVST) assembled key company leaders on Wednesday for a highly productive meeting which established plans for execution in 2018. Those plans include executing sales opportunities presented by synergies of the recently acquired entities, discussion of uplisting requirements, and future acquisitions.
As an update, the telehealth effort branded as “Sanavida,” is nearing commercial launch. Sanavida is the only Consumer division within Innovest.
Commercial and Industrial Energy is ramping up significantly with the launch of the LEEP program, allowing companies to finance the cost of their lighting upgrades by utilizing the energy cost savings provided by the new equipment, which is estimated to be a 50% savings. All with no money out of pocket. In the Durable Goods category, Innovest has a 35 year history in safety supply business, featuring 50,000 SKUs and very unique OSHA offerings which include a floor cleaner that results in non-slip flooring even when the floor gets wet, and a cardiac defibrillation machine that provides feedback to the person doing CPR regarding the quality of their chest compression efforts.
Innovest’s new call center provides all divisions an incredibly cost effective way of enhancing their sales efforts, and working together with each other to market their particular offerings to all of Innovest’s other commercial clients.
In addition to company executives, and board members, in attendance of part of the meeting were acquisition targets currently in negotiation with Innovest, as well as a representative working to advance the auto sector initiative. The team is thrilled with the 2018 plan and working diligently to execute. “This is an extremely focused, energetic, and experienced team. They are world class and I’m extremely thankful for each and every one of them, and more impressed with our team’s progress every day,” said Innovest CEO, Dan Martin.
Follow us on Twitter @innovestglobal for important company updates! For more information on Innovest contact info@innovestglobal.com , or call Innovest investor Relations Matt Rego at 216.815.1122.
http://www.innovestglobal.com
Safe Harbor Statement: This news release contains "forward-looking statements", which are statements that are not purely historical and include any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions regarding the future. Such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the development, costs and results of new business opportunities. Actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors. Such factors include, among others, the inherent uncertainties associated with new projects and development stage companies. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this news release, and we assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that any beliefs, plans, expectations and intentions contained in this press release are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any such beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions will prove to be accurate. Investors should consult all of the information set forth herein and should also refer to the risk factors disclosure outlined in our annual report on Form 10-K for the most recent fiscal year, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For more information on Innovest Investor Relations, Spotlight Growth, please visit http://www.SpotlightGrowth.com and http://www.Corporate.SpotlightGrowth.com .
You can also follow on social media:
Innovest Twitter: https://twitter.com/InnovestGlobal
Spotlight Growth Twitter: https://twitter.com/SpotlightGrowth
Spotlight Growth Facebook: https://facebook.com/Spotlight-Growth-103630363712364/
Spotlight Growth LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/spotlight-growth-732ba1147
Spotlight Growth Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/spotlight_growth/
Source:Innovest Global, Inc