AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- American Campus Communities, Inc. (NYSE: ACC), the nation’s largest owner and manager of high-quality student housing properties in the U.S., announced that on January 23, 2018 its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share of common stock, payable on February 16, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 2, 2018.
About American Campus Communities
American Campus Communities, Inc. is the largest owner, manager and developer of high-quality student housing communities in the United States. The company is a fully integrated, self-managed and self-administered equity real estate investment trust (REIT) with expertise in the design, finance, development, construction management and operational management of student housing properties. As of September 30, 2017, American Campus Communities owned 166 student housing properties containing approximately 102,500 beds. Including its owned and third-party managed properties, ACC's total managed portfolio consisted of 204 properties with approximately 131,300 beds. Visit www.americancampus.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to historical information, this press release contains under the applicable federal securities law. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions regarding markets in which American Campus Communities, Inc. (the “Company”) operates, operational strategies, anticipated events and trends, the economy, and other future conditions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. For discussions of some risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the , please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 under the heading “Risk Factors” and under the heading “Business - Forward-looking Statements” and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any , including our expected 2017 operating results, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005427/en/
American Campus Communities, Inc.
Ryan Dennison, 512-732-1000
Investor Relations
Source: American Campus Communities, Inc.