Earnings Release and Earnings Call Dates Also Announced
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. (NYSE: ETE) today announced a $0.01 increase in its quarterly cash distribution to $0.305 per ETE common unit ($1.22 on an annualized basis) for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2017. This quarterly distribution will be paid on February 20, 2018 to unitholders of record as of the close of business on February 8, 2018.
ETE plans to release earnings for the fourth quarter of 2017 on Wednesday, February 21, 2018, after the market closes. ETE and its subsidiary, Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (NYSE: ETP), will conduct a joint conference call on Thursday, February 22, 2018 at 8:00 a.m. Central Time to discuss quarterly results. The conference call will be broadcast live via an internet webcast, which can be accessed on Energy Transfer’s website at energytransfer.com . The call will also be available for replay on Energy Transfer’s website for a limited time.
Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. (NYSE:ETE) is a master limited partnership that owns the general partner and 100% of the incentive distribution rights (IDRs) of Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (NYSE: ETP) and Sunoco LP (NYSE: SUN). ETE also owns Lake Charles LNG Company. On a consolidated basis, ETE’s family of companies owns and operates a diverse portfolio of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil and refined products assets, as well as retail and wholesale motor fuel operations and LNG terminalling. For more information, visit the Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. website at energytransfer.com .
Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (NYSE: ETP) is a master limited partnership that owns and operates one of the largest and most diversified portfolios of energy assets in the United States. Strategically positioned in all of the major U.S. production basins, ETP owns and operates a geographically diverse portfolio of complementary natural gas midstream, intrastate and interstate transportation and storage assets; crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and refined product transportation and terminalling assets; NGL fractionation; and various acquisition and marketing assets. ETP’s general partner is owned by Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. (NYSE: ETE). For more information, visit the Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. website at energytransfer.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may include certain statements concerning expectations for the future that are forward-looking statements as defined by federal law. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond management’s control. An extensive list of factors that can affect future results are discussed in the Partnership’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Partnership undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect new information or events.
This release serves as qualified notice to nominees as provided for under Treasury Regulation section 1.1446-4(b)(4) and (d). Please note that 100 percent of Energy Transfer Equity, L.P.’s distributions to foreign investors are attributable to income that is effectively connected with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, all of Energy Transfer Equity, L.P.’s distributions to foreign investors are subject to federal tax withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate. Nominees are treated as withholding agents responsible for withholding distributions received by them on behalf of foreign investors.
The information contained in this press release is available on our website at energytransfer.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129006142/en/
Energy Transfer Equity, L.P.
Investor Relations:
Helen Ryoo, Lyndsay Hannah, Brent Ratliff, 214-981-0795
or
Media Relations:
Vicki Granado, 214-840-5820
Source: Energy Transfer Equity, L.P.