NEW YORK, Stribling & Associates is pleased to announce that Jared Seligman, one of New York City's leading real estate professionals, has joined the company. With a vast global network of diverse clientele and profound experience in townhouse, co-op, and condo resales as well as new development marketing, Seligman has handled more than $1 billion in sales on behalf of his clients.
"I am grateful to have worked with many wonderful friends, colleagues and mentors throughout my career. I am now thrilled to continue serving my clients through Stribling Private Brokerage and working alongside Elizabeth Stribling, Elizabeth Ann Stribling-Kivlan and their incredible team, for whom I have the utmost respect," said Seligman. "This strategic move will allow my clients to benefit from the resources and personalized attention offered through a privately-owned brokerage where discretion and unwavering ethics are at the heart of every transaction. My team and I are excited to utilize Stribling's exceptional new development division and its international alliance with Savills to best serve our clients."
Since the age of 18, Seligman, an Upper East Side native, has distinguished himself as one of the top real estate agents in New York City and the nation. He is often featured as a leading real estate expert in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, The Real Deal, and CNBC. In addition, Seligman's deep understanding of architectural history, design, investment, and development are hallmarks of his work with his signature aesthetic frequently shown in the pages of Architectural Digest, Harper's Bazaar, Vogue, and Town and Country, among other influential publications.
"I have known Jared for many years and have watched his career reach astounding heights. As any of his clients will tell you, he is a consummate professional who exceeds expectations, and I am excited to welcome Jared to Stribling," said Elizabeth Ann Stribling-Kivlan, President.
"We are absolutely thrilled to work with Jared and his team. I can't think of a more momentous way to start off the new year in 2018," added Elizabeth Stribling, Chairman, who later this month will receive the Real Estate Board of New York's Bernard H. Mendik Lifetime Leadership award.
Seligman is based out of Stribling's flagship Madison Avenue office on Manhattan's Upper East Side.
About Stribling
Stribling & Associates, Ltd . is a premier residential real estate firm with over 300 agents throughout three locations in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn. As one of the most renowned brokerages in New York, Stribling uses its respected expertise in the current market to provide individualized services to both buyer and sellers. Stribling agents specialize in the sale of luxury townhouses and cooperative and condominium apartments. The company's philosophy is based on professional, personalized services coupled with exceptional knowledge of key residential market trends. Stribling Private Brokerage specializes in the discreet marketing of properties over $5 million and commands a prominent market share in that sector of Manhattan residential real estate. Through strategic partnerships with Miami's Cervera and international estate services firm Savills, Stribling's global reach extends to more than 700 offices worldwide.
Contact:
Ashley Murphy
Stribling & Associates
Amuprhy@stribling.com
 : releases/jared-seligman-joins-stribling--associates-300576608.html
SOURCE Stribling & Associates