HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- HWCG recently announced that Craig T. Castille has been appointed as the Managing Director effective January 1, 2018.
While employed as the Director of Drilling for Stone Energy Corporation, a member of HWCG, he served on the HWCG Board since its inception, and as Chairman of the HWCG Board and Steering Committee from 2015 to 2017. In his new position, Castille is well positioned to provide leadership for the organization into the future.
“We are committed to achieving the response needs of our members today and into the future. HWCG continues to bring together the industry’s brightest and most experienced deepwater personnel and is looking forward to adding Castille’s extensive experience to our team,” said Michael Noel, Commercial Director of HWCG.
As the Managing Director, Castille will be responsible for overseeing operations for the organization. Castille aims to provide excellent service to Members, engage regulatory, state and federal stakeholders and grow membership.
Castille has over 30 years of international and diverse experience in offshore rig operations involving drilling, completions, well testing and abandonments on platform rigs, jack ups and floaters since graduating in petroleum engineering from the University of Louisiana in 1985. Castille concluded his over 7-year tenure at Stone Energy during which time he participated on the API Joint Industry Task Force post Macondo, drilled 6 deepwater wells, participated in two unannounced containment drills as the Source Control Section Chief and helped implement two announced containment spill drills.
“HWCG will continuously maximize collaborative efforts amongst our members, service providers and the industry’s regulators to ensure we have access to assets which can be uniquely equipped for a deepwater well containment event,” said Castille. “I’m looking forward to leading HWCG and furthering our commitment to safe and responsible offshore drilling and the prevention of a deepwater incident.”
About HWCG LLC
HWCG LLC is a consortium of 18 deepwater operators in the Gulf of Mexico who have come together with the common goal of maintaining capabilities to quickly and comprehensively respond to a subsea well containment event to protect people, property and the environment. Bringing together the technical expertise and resources from this diverse group of operators, and building upon equipment tested and proven in the Deepwater Horizon response, HWCG has developed a deepwater well containment response system and mutual aid agreement capable of immediate activation and deployment. For more information, visit: hwcg.org
HWCG Members
Cobalt International Energy, L.P.
Noble Energy, Inc. Deep Gulf Energy LP
Petrobras America Inc. ENI US Operating Co. Inc.
Red Willow Offshore, LLC EnVen Energy Ventures, LLC
Repsol Services Company Energy Resource Technology GOM, LLC
Ridgewood Energy WCG Member, LLC LLOG Exploration Company, LLC
Stone Energy Corporation Marathon Oil Company
TOTAL E&P USA, INC. Marubeni Oil & Gas (USA) Inc.
Walter Oil & Gas Corporation Murphy Exploration & Production Company - USA
W&T Offshore, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005490/en/
BrandExtract LLC
Mary Becker, 713.942.7959
Source: HWCG LLC