Top News 
Bitcoin slumps amid South Korea crackdown. 
Bitcoin is down about 10%, losing more than $1,500 in value, as South Korea’s government cracks down on cryptocurrency exchanges. The country’s justice minister repeated his proposed plan to ban local cryptocurrency exchanges on Thursday—a move that would deal a major blow to one of the world’s most active cryptocurrency markets. It also came as China continues to shut down its own local bitcoin mining operations. Bloomberg 
The IRS says it needs more money for tax overhaul. 
While the GOP-led Congress celebrates the new tax law, it may also need to send more money to the Internal Revenue Service to implement changes to the country’s tax codes. A new report from the agency’s in-house public advocate claims that years of budget cuts at the IRS present a challenge as the tax agency prepares to make changes such as updating forms and creating new definitions, all while fielding a likely uptick in questions from taxpayers about the new law. The Wall Street Journal 
Berkshire moves could hint at Buffett’s successor. 
What happens when Warren Buffett eventually steps aside at Berkshire Hathaway may have become a bit clearer on Wednesday. The billionaire’s investment vehicle named Gregory Abel and Ajit Jain as vice chairmen. Calling the two men “the two key figures at Berkshire,” Buffett noted that the move was a “movement toward succession,” suggesting that either Abel or Jain could be the Oracle of Omaha’s heir apparent. The New York Times 
Hyundai bets on Uber rival in Asia. 
Hyundai Motor is backing in one of Uber’s ride-sharing rivals in Southeast Asia. The South Korean automaker is the latest major corporation to invest in Grab, a Singapore-based ride-hailing service. Japan’s SoftBank and Toyota Tsusho (the automaker’s trading arm) have also invested in Grab, as has China’s Didi Chuxing. Fortune Around the Water Cooler 
A new look for Diet Coke. 
Coca-Cola is rolling out new flavors and a revamped can design for Diet Coke in the biggest tweak to the popular soda since 1982. The company will offer various flavor alternatives to regular Diet Coke, such as ginger lime, feisty cherry, and twisted mango. Meanwhile, the drinks will now appear in thinner, taller versions of the traditional 12-ounce cans that the company thinks will appear more to millennials. Fortune 
KodakCoin strikes again. 
The investing furor over everything cryptocurrency continued to bolster the shares of the struggling Eastman Kodak, which made a splash this week with its announcement that the 130-year-old company is jumping on the blockchain bandwagon with its own cryptocurrency. Since the debut of KodakCoin, the company’s shares have increased more than 300% (rising as much as 90% just on Wednesday). Fortune 
NYC sues Big Oil. 
The New York City government brought a lawsuit this week that blames the world’s five biggest public oil companies for the city’s rising spending on combatting the effects of climate change. The lawsuit names BP, Chevron, Conoco-Phillips, ExxonMobil, and Royal Dutch Shell, while claiming that those companies create 11% of all the world’s greenhouse gases and that they do so with full awareness of their collective impact on the environment. The Washington Post 
Fighting a deadly virus with cows. 
A potentially major medical breakthrough could be on the horizon in the form of genetically modified cows that can help protect humans against Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, aka MERS, one of the world’s deadliest viruses. Fortune 