ALISO VIEJO, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Corent Technology , the emerging leader in Cloud Migration and SaaS-enablement technologies, today announced that Jim DuBois, a global IT and Cloud industry veteran, and the most recent CIO of Microsoft - has joined Corent as a senior advisor.
Jim DuBois, a global IT industry veteran and the most recent Microsoft Chief Information Officer, will advise Corent Tech - the emerging leader in Cloud Migration and SaaS enablement technologies
“Corent’s SurPaaS Platform disrupts the existing paradigm of taking the existing on-premise enterprise applications to the cloud and enable them as SaaS without re-architecting the applications,” said DuBois. “I am pleased to join forces with Corent and help this innovative company with its accelerating momentum of growth and success in helping customers break the bonds of their most important applications with last generation data center architecture. With SurPaaS, CIOs can quickly scan, analyze, optimize, and migrate their applications to the Cloud without spending thousands of coding hours to build what SurPaaS offers rapidly, in an automated, reliable, and consistent fashion. “
“We are thrilled to have such a highly accomplished, insightful and proven technology leader join Corent as we are about to embark on an aggressive go to market plan together with some of the key Cloud industry leaders,” said Feyzi Fatehi, Corent’s CEO.
Corent SurPaaS automatically migrates and Cloud-enables any software application as fully instrumented SaaS for efficient delivery ‘as a Service,’ saving years and millions of dollars worth of manual design and programming effort. SurPaaS was named the most Innovative Cloud Service and was recognized by the Gartner Group for its innovative approach for rapid delivery of conventional software as fully instrumented SaaS (Software as a Service). Corent was recently awarded a patent for its consequential invention of “Software Defined SaaS ® ” platform.
About Jim Dubois
Since 2013 Jim DuBois served as Corporate Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO) at Microsoft Corporation until late 2017. He was responsible for the company's global security, infrastructure, IT messaging, and business applications. Since joining Microsoft in 1993, he served various other roles in Microsoft including leading IT teams for application development, infrastructure and service management and as Microsoft's Chief Information Security Officer. Before joining Microsoft, Mr. DuBois worked for Accenture, focusing on financial and distribution systems. In 2017, Mr. DuBois authored “Six-Word Lessons on How to Think Like a Modern-Day CIO” - a highly acclaimed book that gives 100 practical lessons on thriving in a fast-paced tech world of digital transformation and effective use of technology to drive business value.
About Corent
Corent Technology, Inc. is the provider of SurPaaS platform - the emerging platform for Cloud migration and management. Corent is managed by a team of Silicon Valley veterans from Microsoft, IBM, HPE, Cisco, EMC, Oracle, and WMware among others. For more information about Corent, please visit: www.corenttech.com and to contact Corent please drop a note to info@corenttech.com .
Media Contact:
Dan Chmielewski
Madison Alexander PR
(949) 614-0634
info@corenttech.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/cfa89e18-7dfc-4744-b864-a89752b6e1f1
Source: Corent Technology