Mattias Janmark scored twice and had an assist in the first 26 minutes, as the Dallas Stars ended a four-game road streak by rolling past the hapless Buffalo Sabres 7-1 on Saturday afternoon at KeyBank Center in Buffalo, N.Y.
The Stars earned seven of a possible eight points on the road trip and head home in fifth place in the Western Conference standings.
Dallas scored early and often against the Sabres’ porous defense and goaltender Robin Lehner, who allowed four goals in the first 30 minutes of play before being lifted for Chad Johnson.
The Stars’ Remi Elie got the scoring started with a goal at the 5:03 mark of the first period after assists from Janmark and Jason Spezza.
Janmark tallied the next two goals for Dallas, first at the 14:09 mark of the first period off assists by Esa Lindell and Devin Shore and then 6:25 into the second period with John Klingberg and Spezza credited for setting up the score.
The Sabres’ Sam Reinhart cut the Dallas lead to 3-1 with 11:06 to play in the second period on a power-play goal that was garnered by assists from Jack Eichel and Rasmus Ristolainen. But the Stars needed just 38 seconds to get that goal back as Jamie Benn lit the light after assists from Klingberg and Lindell.
Benn’s goal chased Lehner, and Johnson was greeted with a goal by Lindell less than three minutes later. Alexander Radulov and Benn got the assists on the score. Finally, the Stars pushed their advantage to 6-1 as Radek Faksa tipped in a shot from Stephen Johns after a pass from Antoine Roussel with 2:29 to play in the second period.
Dallas’ Tyler Pitlick scored the game’s final goal at the 7:24 mark of the third period after assists by Klingberg and Faksa.
Kari Lehtonen started in goal for just the second time in Dallas’ past 15 games and stopped 26 shots to earn the victory. Lehtonen opened the road trip for Dallas on Monday with a 3-2 overtime win against the Boston Bruins.
Buffalo has lost seven of its past eight games and is mired in last place in the Eastern Conference with the second-worst record in the league.
--Field Level Media
 