CONWAY, Ark., and MADISON, N.J., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ERA Real Estate, a global franchising leader, today announced that one of its franchisees, ERA TEAM Real Estate in Conway, Arkansas, has acquired local brokerage Pam McDowell Properties, nearly doubling its independent sales agent count and enhancing its market presence in the region.
The expanded companies will now operate as ERA TEAM Real Estate out of the Conway office, with more than 60 agents. Under the management of broker/owner Tracy Tidwell and executive broker Mark Tidwell since 2014, ERA TEAM Real Estate has grown into a leader in the Central Arkansas area – comprised of Conway, Maumelle, Little Rock and North Little Rock – offering its agents a competitive suite of technology, training and career development tools.
"From a shared culture centered around unparalleled customer service, to a strong focus on community relationships and a deep investment in the success and productivity of their affiliated agents, these two brokerages share our ERA values," said Sue Yannaccone, president and CEO of ERA Real Estate. "Together, they are poised to help agents grow, innovate their business, and meet the evolving opportunities of the Central Arkansas real estate market."
After several years of growth, Pam McDowell Properties, founded in 1995 by broker/owner Pam McDowell, began looking to align with a company who could offer the brokerage's growing agent pool the technology resources and learning opportunities they wanted to increase their productivity while driving more value to the consumer. ERA TEAM Real Estate will equip agents with a comprehensive suite of marketing and technology platforms and learning and development courses as they look to build their business.
"The addition of Pam McDowell and her team of committed agents allows us to nearly double our agent count and grow market share in the region," Ms. Tidwell said, "positioning us to develop those agents and provide Central Arkansas buyers and sellers with more inventory, continued customer service and a strengthened reputation for excellence."
ABOUT ERA REAL ESTATE
ERA Franchise Systems LLC ( www.ERA.com ) is a global leader in the residential real estate industry with more than 40 years of experience in developing consumer-oriented products and services, delivering value through innovation and collaboration. The ERA Real Estate network includes more than 39,000 affiliated brokers and independent sales associates and approximately 2,250 offices throughout the United States and 31 other countries and territories. Each office is independently owned and operated except offices owned and operated by NRT LLC. ERA Franchise Systems LLC, which operates the ERA Real Estate system, is a subsidiary of Realogy Holdings Corp. (NYSE: RLGY), a global provider of real estate services. ERA Real Estate information is available at www.ExploreERA.com .
Media Contact :
Maggie Rohr
973-407-4027
Maggie.rohr@era.com
Olesia Plokhii
617-997-8779
oplokhii@hudsoncutler.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/era-real-estate-expands-presence-in-arkansas-through-affiliates-growth-300582363.html
SOURCE ERA Real Estate