TUSTIN, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- New American Funding , a leader in the mortgage industry, has expanded its Central Texas territory with the award-winning Leaman Team. Ranked by Austin Business Journal as the #1 Lender in Austin for six consecutive years, Max Leaman will spearhead the market expansion as Branch Manager and Senior Loan Officer.
Leaman's top priority is to continue providing industry-leading service while bringing the latest in innovation to Austin. "The home loan industry is changing rapidly; customers and Real Estate Agents want fast closings, low rates, and state-of-the-art technology to save time and simplify the loan process," said Leaman. "Powered by New American Funding, we deliver what the market wants from application to closing."
In 2017, Max Leaman (NMLS 151263) closed more than 1,000 home loans and was identified by Scotsman Guide in 2016 as the #1 Loan Originator in the nation for purchase units . He's joined by his production team: Jori Stern (NMLS: 177299), Amanda Stewart (NMLS 292478), Adam Biehler (NMLS 208244) and Tiffany Wilbrett Garcia (NMLS: 872278), as well as his talented operations, processing, and closing teams.
"We're thrilled to have Max Leaman and his team on board with New American Funding," said Co-Founder and President Patty Arvielo. "Not only do they bring a wealth of industry insight but they embody the future of mortgage banking . They're young, innovative, and ahead of the curve, which merges well with our fast-moving automated platform."
Leaman has been serving Austin since 2001, where he specializes in all loan types. His superior service has earned him recognition as a Five-Star Professional for seven years in a row.
"We're dedicated to delivering service on a whole new level and finding out-of-the-box solutions," said Leaman. "Borrowers and agents alike want on-demand access and we're glad to be able to provide it."
About New American Funding
New American Funding is a family-owned mortgage lender with a servicing portfolio of $22 billion, approximately 140 branches, and about 2600 employees. The company offers niche loan products including 1% Down and Your Path, and has made Inc. 5000's list of Fastest-Growing Companies in America five times. It has a state-of-the-art career training facility and develops innovative technology, including mobile apps GoGo LO and GoGo Partner.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-american-funding-expands-central-texas-territory-with-top-producing-leaman-team-300582902.html
SOURCE New American Funding