The Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO) received a record number of nominations for 2018 board positions McAvoy was elected to fill the board position representing technology companies with annual revenue greater than $25 million McAvoy will leverage his extensive industry expertise to help advance real estate standards for the benefit of agents, brokers and consumers
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Black Knight, Inc. (NYSE:BKI) announced today that Chip McAvoy, vice president and real estate market leader for Black Knight’s Data & Analytics division, has been elected to the Real Estate Standards Organization ’s (RESO) board of directors for 2018. RESO received a record number of nominations for its 2018 board positions, and McAvoy was elected to fill the board position representing technology companies with annual revenue greater than $25 million. He will serve a two-year term, which began on Jan. 1, 2018.
Chip McAvoy has been elected to the board of directors for the Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO) for 2018.
RESO develops, adopts and implements open data standards and processes across all real estate transactions, and has more than 700 active members, including the National Association of REALTORS (NAR), multiple listing service organizations (MLS), real estate associations, brokerages and technology providers. The RESO board of directors is responsible for the organization’s governance as well as the development of its strategic plan.
With 18 years of industry experience, McAvoy brings a strong background to the RESO board. At Black Knight, he manages the company’s real estate-related products and services, including Black Knight’s flagship Paragon MLS platform, and other solutions addressing the needs of real estate professionals. Through his responsibilities for the overall strategy and development of new products and solutions for MLS organizations, brokers and agents, McAvoy has developed knowledgeable insight of the unique business challenges of these constituents. From a technology perspective, he understands the importance of setting consistent standards for both MLS organizations and their clients.
“Chip’s deep industry experience, innovative thinking and strong leadership will be a valuable addition to our organization,” said Jeremy Crawford, CEO of RESO. “We are looking forward to working with Chip, whose input and ideas will further our mission to create and promote the adoption and utilization of standards that drive efficiency throughout the real estate industry.”
“We are very pleased that Chip has the honor and privilege to serve on the board of RESO,” said Kevin Coop, group executive and president of the Black Knight Data & Analytics division. “Black Knight is committed to RESO’s vision of developing and implementing data standards and processes that facilitate software innovation, the elimination of redundancies and maximizing efficiency for all parties involved in real estate transactions. We recognize the importance of the real estate professional as critical to the transaction and welcome the opportunity to help fulfill the RESO vision.”
About RESO
The mission of the Real Estate Standards Organization (RESO) is to create and promote the adoption and utilization of standards that drive efficiency throughout the real estate industry. RESO was incorporated in November 2011 as an independent, not-for-profit trade organization that was previously a section of the National Association of REALTORS ® . RESO has more than 730 active members, including NAR, multiple-listing services, real estate associations, brokerages and industry technology providers. For more information, visit www.reso.org . Contact RESO via email at info@reso.org .
About Black Knight
Black Knight (NYSE:BKI) is a leading provider of integrated software, data and analytics solutions that facilitate and automate many of the business processes across the homeownership lifecycle.
Black Knight is committed to being a premier business partner that clients rely on to achieve their strategic goals, realize greater success and better serve their customers by delivering best-in-class software, services and insights with a relentless commitment to excellence, innovation, integrity and leadership. For more information on Black Knight, please visit http://www.blackknightinc.com/ .
For more information:
Media contact:
Michelle Kersch
904.854.5043
michelle.kersch@bkfs.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/b0830f52-fa77-479e-97d1-d9920d8c7af3
Source:Black Knight, Inc.