WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Comvest Partners (“Comvest”) is pleased to announce that Maneesh Chawla has joined the firm as a Partner. Maneesh will be assembling and leading a team focused on microcap buyouts and minority growth investments as Comvest continues to expand its investment platform. Based in West Palm Beach, Maneesh will be responsible for all key aspects of the investment process, including sourcing, transaction execution and portfolio company oversight.
Comvest Partners primary logo
“Maneesh brings extensive experience investing in the lower middle market, which has been the cornerstone of Comvest’s heritage and where we continue to see significant opportunities,” said Michael Falk, Comvest’s Chairman and Managing Partner.
“We’re excited to have Maneesh join the firm and expand our franchise in the microcap control and non-control market,” said Roger Marrero, Managing Partner.
“Comvest’s deep resources, operational focus, and flexible approach have created a compelling platform and strong investment track record,” said Maneesh Chawla. “I am excited to join the team and look forward to contributing to its future success.”
Prior to joining Comvest, Maneesh was a Principal at Prospect Partners, where he was responsible for all aspects of the investment process and a member of the Executive and Investment Committees. Prior to Prospect Partners, Maneesh was a Senior Analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Maneesh received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and he received his B.S. from The Wharton School at The University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated magna cum laude .
About Comvest Partners:
Comvest Partners is a private investment firm providing equity and debt capital to middle-market companies across the U.S. Since its founding in 2000, Comvest Partners has invested over $2.9 billion in over 155 companies. Today, Comvest Partners' funds have $2.8 billion of assets under management. Through its extensive capital resources and broad network of industry relationships, Comvest Partners offers companies financial sponsorship, critical strategic and operational support, and business development assistance. For more information, please visit www.comvest.com .
For more information, please contact:
Maneesh Chawla
Partner
(561) 727-1790
M.Chawla@comvest.com
Carlos Soto
Principal, Business Development
(561) 727-2032
C.Soto@comvest.com
Source:Comvest Partners