MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Imagine ! Print Solutions ("Imagine ! ") is pleased to announce that GFX International ("GFX") has joined the Imagine ! family of companies. GFX is a premier retail design and execution firm based in Grayslake, Illinois. With the acquisition of GFX and the continued support of Oak Hill Capital Partners, Imagine ! continues to add world-class capabilities and customer solutions in support of its vision:
To become the world's most admired visual communications company, thrilling customers through innovation and execution .
John Hans, CEO of Imagine ! , is highly enthusiastic about the partnership and stated, "Adding GFX's talented management and client teams, custom technology platforms, and unique market positioning to Imagine ! 's visual solutions offering and network make this an ideal match and partnership."
"We're excited about becoming part of the Imagine ! family of companies," stated Chuck Huttinger, Founder and CEO of GFX. "The partnership with Imagine ! enables us to further strengthen our customer solutions by leveraging the unique capabilities of the Imagine ! group and provides additional avenues to achieve both companies' growth objectives."
"We feel we've found the ideal business partner," added Tim Nisbet, President of GFX. "GFX's existing management team and I are looking forward to working with the team at Imagine ! to build upon the success GFX has demonstrated over the past 25 years!"
About Imagine!
Imagine ! is an industry-leading, complete visual communications provider, delivering end-to-end solutions for retailers, CPGs and various other segments. Imagine ! helps brand marketers execute in-store campaigns with the highest level of quality and accuracy while maintaining a streamlined, cost-effective process. Headquartered in Minneapolis, the Imagine ! family of companies includes Imagine ! Print Solutions (Minneapolis, MN), Imagine ! EXPRESS (Minneapolis, MN), Classic Graphics (Charlotte, NC), and Midnight Oil Agency (Burbank, CA). Imagine ! was founded in 1988 and is based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Learn more and be inspired at DiscoverImagine.com .
About GFX International
GFX is a retail design and execution firm utilizing proprietary software and custom technology (GFX Symphony®) to minimize retailers' and brands' Total Cost To Communicate with shoppers in store. GFX delivers both temporary in-store campaign and sustaining in-store décor solutions. GFX's unique approach and proprietary technology has enabled retailers to greatly simplify the way they deal with retail chain complexities. For more information, visit www.gfxi.com or call 847-543-4600.
Imagine ! Media Contact:
Chad Nibbelink
Vice President, Corporate Development
+1 952-903-4400
GFX International Contact:
Tim Nisbet, President
+1 847-543-4600
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gfx-international-joins-the-imagine-family-of-companies-300582002.html
SOURCE Imagine! Print Solutions