WARSAW, Ind., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WishBone Medical, Inc., a new global pediatric orthopedic company, committed to providing anatomically appropriate innovative implants in sterile packed, single-use disposable kits, announces that Andrew “Andy” J. Miclot has taken on the role of President and will continue in his role as Vice Chairman and Director on the WishBone Medical Board of Directors.
Mr. Miclot is a seasoned executive with almost 40 years of global Medical Device experience. He has been President and CEO of several Medical Device Companies with executive leadership positions, put together world-class management teams and completed and integrated acquisitions globally. He has had success in early stage and in Fortune 500 companies turning around unprofitable and growing primarily Orthopedic and ENT companies. Early experience included growing sterile packed, single-use, disposable kit Medical Device companies.
He is joining WishBone Medical after turning around Micro Machine as President and CEO, an orthopedic company with offices in Warsaw, IN and Kalamazoo, MI. Recent experience includes General Manager ENT /Senior Vice President and Officer of ArthroCare where he increased annual revenue from flat to three years of double digit growth generating 33% of the revenue and 50% of the profit for the entire company.
Andrew was President/CEO and Director of Ascension Orthopedics delivering 15% increase the first year, after two consecutive years of flat sales. He was Senior Vice President of Orthofix where he propelled revenue by 15% in orthopedics that included trauma and external fixation products.
As Senior Vice President/Officer and IRO, he propelled Symmetry Medical, for over thirteen years, from a $10 million breakeven medical device company to $300 million and was key in the NYSE IPO raising $120 million, surpassing Wall Street expectations and generating $220 million via a secondary offering. Other Medical Device Supplier experience included the Executive Vice President of Micro Technologies.
He was Director of Medical Products at DePuy Orthopedics, driving revenues from $64 to $80 million. Responsibilities included trauma, sports medicine, surgical instruments and customs for spine, knee, shoulder, foot, trauma and hip Products. Prior to DePuy, he had several Marketing and Sales leadership positions at Zimmer for over five years in three Divisions; Patient Care, Hall Surgical and Trauma.
Early experience includes: Vice President of Ulti-Med, disposable products for the US and Asia, Medline, as the youngest Director, disposable textile and Custom Sterile Procedure Trays, DeRoyal, Sales Manager with orthopedic soft goods and Custom Sterile Procedure Trays and American Hospital Supply/Hospitex, Sales Manager that turned around a territory ranked worst of 50 to number three in two years and then promoted to Sales Trainer.
Nick Deeter, WishBone Medical’s Founder, Chairman and CEO commented, “We are delighted that Andy is joining WishBone Medical as Global President. He has extensive and relevant global leadership experience in Orthopedics and with single-use, sterile Medical Devices and a strong record of success. Andy will also remain as the Vice Chairman and Director of WishBone Medical’s Board of Directors and we appreciate his guidance over the last year.”
Andy currently serves on three Boards; WishBone Medical as Vice Chairman and Director, Micro Machine as Director and Precision Optics as Director (Public Company). Also, he is on two Advisory Boards; Indiana University Arts and Sciences Alumni Board and ODT (Orthopedic Design and Technology). He was one of a small group of Founders in “The Institute of Orthopaedic Enlightenment” started by Knowledge Enterprises. He has been key note speakers and panel discussion leaders at several Orthopedic and ENT conferences.
He has a BA in Speech and Hearing Sciences and an MA in Audiology from Indiana University, and an MBA from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.
About WishBone Medical, Inc.
WishBone Medical, a Global pediatric orthopedic company, is committed to providing anatomically appropriate innovative implants and instruments in sterile packed, single use, disposable kits, to prevent infection, reduce overall costs for our customers and achieve the best outcomes for children around the world who are still growing.
For more information, contact Andrew Miclot, Vice Chairman and President, at 574-306-4006 or email CustomerService@WishBoneMedical.com
Source:WishBone Medical, Inc.