January 9, 2018 
John Dickerson, host of Face the Nation , will replace Charlie Rose on CBS This Morning . 
The announcement, from CBS News president David Rhodes on Tuesday, comes more than a month after Rose was fired from the network amid allegations of sexual misconduct . 
Dickerson, who anchors CBS News’s Sunday morning show Face the Nation and serves as the network’s chief Washington correspondent, will relocate to New York and join CBS This Morning co-hosts Norah O’Donnell‬ and Gayle King‬‬ on the show this Wednesday. Dickerson will be replaced on Face the Nation. 
“His work is impeccable on television, online, and in print—he’s earned his reputation for substance and preparation as both an interviewer and a field reporter,” Rhodes said in a statement. “Gayle and Norah continue to show tremendous leadership on our morning broadcast each day. Colleagues, newsmakers, and peers all appreciate the depth and context John Dickerson brings to every discussion of the day’s events—together with his co-hosts he will project our best values on every broadcast.” CBS News anchor John Dickerson has been named co-host of @CBSThisMorning , joining Gayle King and Norah O'Donnell #JohnJoinsThisMorning https://t.co/qLL0yqXeLT pic.twitter.com/tref3BTCHA 
— CBS News (@CBSNews) January 9, 2018 
In late November, The Washington Post published a report in which eight women accused Rose of sexual harassment, including groping, nudity, and vulgar phone calls. 
Shortly after the report, Rose apologized for his behavior in a statement. 
“It is essential that these women know I hear them and that I deeply apologize for my inappropriate behavior,” he stated. “I am greatly embarrassed. I have behaved insensitively at times, and I accept responsibility for that, though I do not believe that all of these allegations are accurate. I always felt that I was pursuing shared feelings, even though I now realize I was mistaken.” My statement in full. pic.twitter.com/3kvFrqF2dT 
— Charlie Rose (@charlierose) November 20, 2017 
Charlie Rose was also fired from his eponymous PBS show, and was replaced by Christiane Amanpour in early December. SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 