Former Neustar Executive Brings Data and Analytics Expertise to Drive the World of Connected Cars
MENLO PARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- otonomo , the first connected car data marketplace, today announced that Lisa Joy Rosner has joined the company as Chief Marketing Officer (CMO). Rosner brings more than two decades of data and analytics marketing expertise to otonomo, where she will be focused on expanding operations in the United States, as well as driving global go-to-market strategy and execution.
“Lisa Joy’s proven track record of leveraging data and technology to deliver powerful marketing strategies are in complete lockstep with otonomo’s key objectives,” said Ben Volkow, Founder and CEO of otonomo. “She is the ideal person to analyze and communicate the potential of vehicle data so that we can provide automobile manufaturers (OEMs) with the services they seek, and consumers with the connectivity they crave. We are delighted that Lisa Joy has joined the otonomo family.”
A Silicon Valley veteran, with a combination of public company and start-up CMO experience, Rosner joins otonomo after most recently serving as CMO and SVP at Neustar, where she led global marketing across the entire information services portfolio. She was previously the CMO at NetBase, MyBuys, BroadVision and DecisionPoint; all data and analytics companies at their core. Lisa Joy started her career in marketing at Oracle Corporation. Under her leadership, Rosner has successfully launched and rebranded multiple companies, generating more than $4.5 B in market cap. Her work recognition includes Top 50 Women in Brand Marketing 2015, B2B Marketer of the Year, Marketers that Matter 2013, and OMMA “Best Integrated Online Campaign” 2012. A privacy and security evangelist, as well as a data-driven marketer, Lisa Joy brings a unique perspective to the connected car ecosystem.
“Committed to ‘doing good’ for consumers, otonomo is an innovative force in the world of connected cars,” said Lisa Joy Rosner, CMO otonomo. “I have always gravitated to data and analytics technology companies that disrupt markets and focus on delivering value to consumers. With the help of otonomo, OEM’s can leverage this next wave of connectivity in the car to first and foremost, save lives, as well as enhance the driving experience.”
To learn more, read Lisa Joy’s blog post here: http://otonomo.io/blog/from-data-driven-to-driving-data-helping-to-build-the-first-connected-car-marketplace
About otonomo
otonomo, the first connected car data marketplace, has developed a platform that enables the simple and secure access, acquisition and integration of global vehicle data. We are dedicated to delivering value across a variety of applications, ranging from insurance, emergency services, parking, mobility, smart city, predictive maintenance, contextual advertising and more. Headquartered in Herzeliya, Israel, with presence in the United States, Europe and Japan, we have over 75 partners in our ecosystem. Leading venture capital and strategic investors include Bessemer Venture Partners, Aptiv (Delphi Automotive), Dell Technologies Capital, Hearst Ventures, Stageone Ventures, and Maniv Mobility.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005610/en/
for otonomo
Clinton Karr
teamotonomo@summitstrategygroup.net
Source: otonomo