WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, Mont., Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tintina Resources Inc. (“Tintina” or the “Company”) announces that effective February 2, 2018 the Company will change its company name from Tintina Resources Inc. to Sandfire Resources America Inc.
In a seamless transition for shareholders, the Company will continue to trade on the TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol “SFR.V”. FINRA will announce a decision on the proposed U.S. OTC Market symbol change before market open on February 2, 2018.
CEO John Shanahan stated, “We believe it is important, as we undertake these final permitting steps for the Black Butte Copper Project, and look towards construction and operation, that we are transparent and clear with all shareholders and stakeholders regarding the ongoing financial and technical support of our majority shareholder, Sandfire Resources NL. Sandfire Resources NL owns and operates the state-of-the-art DeGrussa copper mine in Australia and has been recognized internationally as an industry leader and environmental steward. The best way we can reflect this important direction is through a corporate name change.”
Senior VP of Exploration Jerry Zieg added, “This is a very positive sign of progress for our project. The fact that a quality company such as Sandfire Resources NL has chosen to believe and invest in the Black Butte Project is a great signal of strength. We look forward to building a world-class operation and to a bright future for all our shareholders, employees, and communities of central Montana.”
The corporate name change is subject to the approval of the TSX Venture Exchange.
Contact Information:
Tintina Resources Inc.
Nancy Schlepp, VP Communications
Mobile: 406-224-8180
Office: 406-547-3466
Email: nschlepp@tintinaresources.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain disclosures in this document constitute “forward looking information” within the meaning of Canadian securities legislation, including statements regarding the Company’s proposed name change and plans for advancing the Black Butte Copper Project, and expected outcomes. In making these forward-looking statements, the Company has applied certain factors and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable, including that the Company will receive required regulatory approvals for the proposed name change, that the Company will continue to be able to access sufficient funding to execute its plans, that the Company’s plans for tailings and water management will be implemented as expected and will have the intended benefits and that the results of exploration and development activities are consistent with management’s expectations. However, the forward-looking statements in this document are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors, including factors relating to the Company’s operation as a mineral exploration and development company and the Black Butte Copper Project, that may cause future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements, including that the Company will not receive required regulatory approvals for the proposed name change when expected or at all, that results of exploration and development activities will not be consistent with management’s expectations, delays in obtaining or inability to obtain required government or other regulatory approvals or financing, failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate as anticipated, the risk of accidents, labor disputes, inclement or hazardous weather conditions, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground control problems, earthquakes, flooding and all of the other risks generally associated with the development of mining facilities and the operation of a producing mine. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The Company does not intend, and expressly disclaims any intention or obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
Source:Tintina Resources Inc.