PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Eastside Distilling, Inc. (NASDAQ: ESDI) (“Eastside” or the “Company”) announced previously that its board of directors had approved a change in the Company’s Nasdaq ticker symbol from “ESDI” to “EAST.” The change in ticker symbol will commence at the market open tomorrow, January 4, 2018.
The change in ticker symbol will also apply to the Company’s publicly traded warrants. The warrants, which are also traded on the Nasdaq, will change from “ESDIW” to “EASTW.”
All filings and market related information will be reported under the new symbol effective January 4, 2018, as well. The CUSIP numbers for the common stock and the warrants will remain unchanged.
About Eastside Distilling
Eastside Distilling, Inc. has been producing high-quality, award-winning craft spirits in Portland, Oregon since 2008. The company is distinguished by its highly decorated product lineup that includes Burnside Bourbon, West End American Whiskey, Goose Hollow Reserve, Below Deck Rums, Portland Potato Vodka, Hue-Hue Coffee Rum and a distinctive line of fruit infused spirits. Eastside Distilling is majority owner of Big Bottom Distilling (makers of The Ninety One Gin, Navy Strength Gin and Delta Rye whiskey) and the Redneck Riviera Whiskey Co. All Eastside, Big Bottom and Redneck Riviera spirits are crafted from natural ingredients for quality and taste. Eastside’s MotherLode Bottling subsidiary is one of the Northwest’s leading independent spirit bottlers and ready-to-drink canners. For more information visit: www.eastsidedistilling.com or follow the company on Twitter and Facebook .
Important Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain matters discussed in this press release may be forward-looking statements. Such matters involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: changes in economic conditions; general competitive factors; acceptance of the Company's products in the market; the Company's success in obtaining new customers; the Company's success in product development; the Company's ability to execute its business model and strategic plans; the Company's success in integrating acquired entities and assets, and all the risks and related information described from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the financial statements and related information contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and interim Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Examples of forward-looking statements in this release may include statements related to our strategic focus, product verticals, anticipated revenue, and profitability. The Company assumes no obligation to update the cautionary information in this release.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006022/en/
Company Contact:
Eastside Distilling
Grover Wickersham, CEO
503-922-0140
or
Steve Shum, CFO
971-888-4264
inquiries@eastsidedistilling.com
or
Investors:
Lytham Partners, LLC
Robert Blum, Joe Diaz or Joe Dorame
602-889-9700
esdi@lythampartners.com
Source: Eastside Distilling, Inc.