NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- One Equity Partners ("OEP"), a leading middle market private equity firm, today announced the completion of its acquisition of all the operating subsidiaries of Rizing, LLC ("Rizing"), a leading SAP-focused provider of IT systems integration and implementation services.
Operating through its Vesta Partners and /N SPRO divisions, Rizing provides specialized IT consulting services to leading global customers that rely on SAP enterprise software to run and manage their businesses. Founded in 2003, Rizing and its skilled broad base of consultants are specialized in value-added products and industry verticals within the SAP ecosystem, including enterprise asset management, human capital management and solutions for companies in the retail and consumer industries segments. Rizing operates from 14 regional offices in the U.S., Canada, the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Malaysia and Australia.
OEP has extensive experience supporting the growth of IT services and enterprise software businesses. "We are excited about the SAP ecosystem and its strong growth trends. Rizing has positioned itself as a strategic partner to SAP in its core segments and is a trusted partner of many leading companies to support their technology initiatives," said Carlo Padovano, Managing Director, OEP. "The expansion of SAP S/4 HANA and its integration with strategically acquired cloud offerings such as SuccessFactors, Ariba, Hybris, Fieldglass and Concur, deliver significant value to customers, and SAP's 'systems of innovation' tools allow customers to leverage next generation technology in big data, analytics, IoT, and machine learning. Rizing is a key partner to its customers in SAP implementations."
This investment is another instance in a long history in which OEP has partnered with founders and managers with ambitious growth plans based on both organic and inorganic opportunities. "OEP believes Rizing has assembled an impressive management team, led by Mike Maiolo, CEO of Rizing," said Padovano. "The team has deep expertise in implementing and integrating SAP solutions for blue chip customers, and we are enthusiastic that they invested alongside us and lead the next growth phase. OEP will complement their operating expertise with our own experience driving strategic and synergistic combinations."
"OEP has an excellent reputation for driving transformative growth in the businesses in which it invests, and the firm shares our vision for expanding Rizing's service offerings to a greater number of SAP practices and further developing select IP offerings that complement our existing services," stated Maiolo. "OEP is the ideal partner to help us to expand both our geographic and vertical footprint internationally where we have identified compelling organic and inorganic growth opportunities."
Rizing's customers include leading businesses in North America, Europe and around the world across diverse vertical markets including energy and utilities, consumer products, financial services, retail, transportation and other industries.
About One Equity Partners
OEP is a middle-market private equity firm focused on the industrial, healthcare, and technology sectors in North America and Europe. The firm builds market-leading companies by identifying and executing transformative business combinations. OEP is a trusted partner with a differentiated investment process, a broad and senior team, and an established track record generating long-term value for its partners. Since 2001, the firm has completed more than 150 transactions worldwide. OEP, founded in 2001, spun out of JP Morgan in 2015. The firm has offices in New York, Chicago, and Frankfurt. For more information, please visit www.oneequity.com .
About Rizing
Headquartered in Stamford, Conn., Rizing is a privately held international company that provides leading SAP functional and technical consulting services to its customers. Rizing is the parent company of Vesta Partners, a leading SAP EAM services firm, and /N SPRO, a top SAP HCM, SuccessFactors and SAP for Retail services firm. The Rizing businesses provide leading specialty SAP consulting services through deep industry experience and a proprietary approach to service delivery and use of IP tools. For more information, please visit www.Rizing.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/one-equity-partners-acquires-rizing-a-leading-sap-focused-systems-integrator-300587021.html
SOURCE One Equity Partners