CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Franchise Gator named Clean Juice the fifth Fastest Growing franchise for 2018 and the fastest growing food concept in conjunction with the release of its annual Top 100 list. The online franchise directory developed the rankings to help prospective franchisees identify top opportunities with strong growth potential that are also affordable investments for the average franchise buyer.
Franchise Gator’s Fastest Growing category spotlights brands experiencing rapid expansion coming into the new year. “This year we identified 50 franchise opportunities for the Fastest Growing category,” said Eric Bell, General Manager of Franchise Gator. “In addition to their track record for building a solid customer base and gaining the trust of investors, the opportunities were selected based on the number of opening and operating units the franchise has had over the past several years.”
“My wife and I spent several years looking for the right opportunity. We didn’t want to design a new concept and we wanted expertise and support along the way,” said Allen Tyndall, Owner of Clean Juice Renaissance Village. “We found Clean Juice and fell in love as consumers first and knew this was the right fit. We couldn’t have asked for more.”
The brand’s very attractive concept appeals to current customers, who being intrigued by the increased popularity of the juicing lifestyle, decide to become franchisees themselves. Other aspects that have resonated strongly with franchisees include the brand’s mission to become the world’s most plentiful juice bar which offers a high-quality menu featuring organic juices, smoothies, bowls and bites and a business model which centers around creating a welcoming, positive experience while promoting a healthy body and strong spirit.
About Clean Juice
Kat and Landon Eckles founded Clean Juice, the first and only USDA certified organic juice bar franchise, in June 2015. With the mission to become the world’s most plentiful juice bar, Clean Juice offers access to on the go organic food and provides truly healthy products with unprocessed produce. With over 90 franchise units awarded, Clean Juice continues to grow and is expected to impact the juicing community across the country. For franchise information visit cleanjuicefranchising.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005643/en/
Clean Juice
Macy Vonderschmidt, 469-396-8591
macy@cleanjuice.com
Source: Clean Juice