GREENVILLE, S.C., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Metromont Corporation, a manufacturer of precast concrete materials, announces its plan to acquire Shockey Precast Group of Winchester, Va.
Metromont, a leader and pioneer in the engineering and manufacturing of precast concrete for commercial construction, will purchase Shockey Precast Group from its current owner, Don Shockey. The Shockey Precast Group will continue to operate under the same name, but as a division of Metromont Corporation.
The Shockey Precast Group serves the mid-Atlantic market and specializes in parking structures, mission critical facilities, and wall enclosure systems.
Mr. Shockey will retain ownership of Howard Shockey & Sons, a General Contractor, and Shockey Realty Company, its commercial real estate division.
Quote: S
"The Shockey Precast Group has an outstanding reputation. Don Shockey has built a quality operation and organization. Our culture and business models are very similar which will make for a smooth transition that's beneficial to both parties. The addition of Shockey Precast and its associates to our team is exciting and will further strengthen our capabilities in the mid-Atlantic region."
– Rick Pennell, Metromont Corporation President and CEO
"The decision to sell Shockey Precast Group, though beneficial for all involved, has not been easy due to the long family history behind it. However, Metromont has an excellent reputation in the industry and we feel the business as well as our employees are in good hands."
– Don Shockey, Chairman of The Shockey Companies
About Metromont Corporation
Metromont Corporation is a leader and pioneer in the engineering and manufacturing of structural and architectural precast concrete solutions. With manufacturing facilities in Greenville & Spartanburg, South Carolina, Hiram, Georgia, Richmond, Virginia and Bartow, Florida, Metromont is one of the largest privately owned precast concrete manufacturers in the United States. Metromont's primary market segments include: schools, office buildings, data centers, parking structures, industrial plants, mixed-use structures and stadiums. The company has built more than 50 stadiums, including seven NFL stadiums, 15 sports arenas, over 30 total precast Multi-family structures and more than 1,000 parking structures. For more information, please visit http://www.metromont.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/metromont-corporation-to-acquire-shockey-precast-group-300577647.html
SOURCE Metromont Corporation