Dallas, TX, Associa , the industry’s largest community management company, promotes Heather Bookheimer to regional sales director for the western region. In her new position, Ms. Bookheimer will utilize her vast experience to lead the western region sales team to realize their full potential while simultaneously focusing on Associa’s goals and vision for the future.
Ms. Bookheimer joined Associa Arizona in 2016, where she initially focused on community management and client retention but quickly transitioned into the role of director of business development. As the director of business development, she elevated Associa Arizona’s reputation by forming strategic partnerships and relationships which ultimately led to successfully adding accounts to the company’s portfolio.
Ms. Bookheimer brings more than 20 years of leadership experience to the company with a heavy emphasis on business development, growth and expansion, and leading teams to perform at optimal levels. Ms. Bookheimer’s experience includes launching and managing an international business division for a technology company, where she oversaw all facets of the business in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, India, and South Africa as well as the domestic training and events division. She has also helped consolidate three business units into one, resulting in a 33% reduction in operational expenses.
“Heather is a seasoned leader and has extensive experience leading teams and producing results,” stated Sean West, Associa vice president, sales. “Her professional experience, business development expertise and continued success at Associa has led her to this new position. I am excited to see where her vision takes the sales team.”
Ms. Bookheimer holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management from the University of Phoenix.
With more than 180 branch offices across North America, Associa delivers unsurpassed management and lifestyle services to nearly five million residents worldwide. Our 10,000+ team members lead the industry with unrivaled education, expertise and trailblazing innovation. For more than 40 years, Associa has provided solutions designed to help communities achieve their vision. To learn more, visit www.associaonline.com .
Stay Connected:
Like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/associa
Subscribe to the Blog: https://hub.associaonline.com/
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/associa
Join us on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/associa
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/03161623-5fd9-483a-bf22-4bfe938031df
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/258b3e34-97c2-4f37-b8a2-972c442cc42f
Ashley S Cantwell Associa 214-272-4107 acantwell@associaonline.com
Source: Associa