COSTA MESA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- D.A. Davidson & Co. announced today that it has served as exclusive financial advisor to CHC Consulting, LLC (“CHC”) in its sale to Congruex.
Headquartered in Orange County, CA, and founded in 2003, CHC provides comprehensive, turn-key professional services in the areas of design, project management, process development, and staffing to a range of marquee telecommunications clients. CHC expertly manages projects from inception through implementation, providing frictionless solutions while maintaining deep and collaborative ties to its customers.
CHC was acquired by Congruex as part of a strategy of building an end-to-end provider of design, engineering, construction management and maintenance services to broadband service providers across the country. Congruex’s acquisition of CHC follows its recent purchase of CCLD Technologies in November 2017. Both acquisitions follow Congruex’s partnership with Crestview Partners, a New York-based private equity firm with significant experience in the cable, telecommunications and business services industries.
“CHC Consulting is one the most unique providers of engineering services in all of utility engineering,” said James Keckler, Managing Director at D.A. Davidson. “We are pleased to have advised CHC on this transaction and to help position the company for continued success as part of Congruex.”
With the completion of this transaction, D.A. Davidson’s investment banking group has advised on multiple deals within the telecommunications infrastructure sector in the past year. Since the start of 2015, D.A. Davidson’s engineering & construction investment banking group, a team within the firm’s diversified industrials practice, has advised on 16 completed transactions, including 4 involving Orange County-based companies.
D.A. Davidson & Co.’s investment banking division is a leading full-service investment bank that offers comprehensive financial advisory and capital markets expertise. The group has extensive transaction experience serving middle market clients worldwide across five industry verticals: consumer, diversified industrials, financial institutions, real estate and technology.
About D.A. Davidson Companies
D.A. Davidson Companies is an employee-owned financial services firm offering a range of financial services and advice to individuals, corporations, institutions and municipalities nationwide. Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Montana, with corporate offices in Denver, Los Angeles, Portland and Seattle, the company has more than 1,300 employees and offices in 24 states.
Subsidiaries include: D.A. Davidson & Co., the largest full-service investment firm headquartered in the Northwest, providing wealth management, investment banking, equity and fixed income capital markets services and advice; Davidson Investment Advisors, a professional asset management firm; D.A. Davidson Trust Company, a trust and wealth management company; and Davidson Fixed Income Management, a registered investment adviser providing fixed income portfolio and advisory services.
For more information, visit dadavidson.com or Twitter: @DADavidsonCo
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006209/en/
Prosek for D.A. Davidson
Emily Roy, 212-279-3115 ext. 232
eroy@prosek.com
or
D.A. Davidson
Jacquie Burchard, 406-791-7465
Cell: 406-868-1392
jburchard@dadco.com
Source: D.A. Davidson & Co.