Restaurant industry veteran takes the helm of Portland’s iconic doughnut shop
PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Voodoo Doughnut today announced the appointment of Chris Schultz as the company’s CEO. Schultz has over 30 years of restaurant industry experience, most recently with MOD Pizza serving as the company’s Senior Vice President of Operations. During his tenure, he helped steward the company from one to over 300 locations worldwide. Prior to MOD, Schultz spent 13 years at Starbucks Coffee Company as an operational advisor to the senior executive team as the company expanded domestically and internationally. At Voodoo, Schultz will call upon his experience to focus on growth of the brand, strengthening the culture, entering new markets and staying connected to the communities that we operate in.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006372/en/
Voodoo Doughnut CEO, Chris Schultz (Photo: Business Wire)
“Voodoo has all the magic needed to create something really big and Chris has the experience we need as we realize our dream of a culture-driven business,” said Kenneth “Cat Daddy” Pogson, co-founder of Voodoo Doughnut. “His commitment to the customer and dedication to building a strong culture will pave the way as we try and put more Magic in the Hole.”
Voodoo Doughnut currently has six locations in four states, most recently opening on the City Walk Universal Studios Hollywood. Creators of the Bacon Maple Bar, Portland Cream and Memphis Mafia doughnuts, Voodoo has earned a cult following worldwide for its unique take on the classic doughnut shop. Founders Kenneth “Cat Daddy” Pogson and Tres Shannon built their “little doughnut shop that could” into a dynamic fun zone in front of and behind the counter.
Said Schultz, “Voodoo has all the ingredients to go from ‘the little company that could’ to the next big thing. We will be retaining all that’s wonderful to make sure the Voodoo that’s done so well isn’t lost as we introduce ourselves to new customers, communities and employees.”
Schultz succeeds Robin “Lobster” Ludwig in the role of CEO. Ludwig tragically lost his battle with brain cancer in 2015.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006372/en/
Voodoo Doughnut
Sara Heise, 503-546-9666
Sarat3@voodoodoughnut.com
@VoodooDoughnut
Source: Voodoo Doughnut