WASHINGTON, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Antimicrobials Working Group (AWG) announced today that Michael Dunne, M.D., Chief Scientific Officer of Iterum Therapeutics, has been appointed as Vice Chair, joining Vice Chair Evan Loh, M.D., President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Medical Officer of Paratek Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: PRTK) and Chairman Jeffrey Stein, Ph.D., President and CEO of Cidara Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: CDTX).
"On behalf of AWG, I would like to welcome Dr. Dunne as Vice Chair," said Dr. Jeffrey Stein, AWG Chairman. "As an infectious disease physician and long-standing member of AWG, the Board of Directors is confident Dr. Dunne will contribute valuable insight in the position as Vice Chair."
"I'm delighted to serve as Vice Chair of our coalition of infectious disease companies committed to advancing innovations in antimicrobial drug and diagnostic device development," said Dr. Michael Dunne. "I look forward to the opportunity to engage with the leadership of AWG to promote legislation and regulatory policies that address barriers that hinder an emerging company's ability to develop new treatment options for serious, and life-threatening diseases."
All pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing new antimicrobial therapeutics and rapid diagnostic devices are eligible for consideration of membership in AWG. If you are interested in learning more about becoming a member of AWG, please contact us here .
About The Antimicrobials Working Group
AWG was founded in 2012 with the vision of utilizing collective power to improve the regulatory, investment, and commercial environment for emerging infectious disease companies. Today, AWG is comprised of seventeen antimicrobials and diagnostic device companies: Amplyx Pharmaceuticals, Aridis Pharmaceuticals, Arsanis Inc., Cidara Therapeutics Inc., ContraFect Corporation, Iterum Therapeutics Ltd., Melinta Therapeutics Inc., Motif Bio PLC, Nabriva Therapeutics US Inc., Paratek Pharmaceuticals Inc., SCYNEXIS Inc., Spero Therapeutics, Inc., T2 Biosystems Inc., Theravance Biopharma U.S. Inc., VPS-3 Inc., Vical Incorporated, and Zavante Therapeutics Inc.
For more information, visit: www.antimicrobialsworkinggroup.org
About The Conafay Group
The Conafay Group, led by Stephen R. Conafay, Principal, is a life-sciences government relations firm based in Washington D.C. that serves as Washington counsel and coalition manager for AWG.
For more information, visit: www.conafaygroup.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-antimicrobials-working-group-announces-the-appointment-of-dr-michael-dunne-as-vice-chair-300589297.html
SOURCE Antimicrobials Working Group (AWG)