NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- ROTH Capital Partners (“ROTH”), www.roth.com , a full service investment bank focused on serving emerging growth companies and their investors, announced today that Scott Searle, CFA has joined the firm as a Managing Director, Senior Research Analyst, with a focus on Technology. Additionally, Brian Alger, CFA has transitioned from Head of Technology Research to Managing Director, Technology Investment Banking.
Prior to joining ROTH, Mr. Searle was a Managing Director, Senior Research Analyst at The Benchmark Company. Prior to Benchmark, over the course of his 20+ year career, Mr. Searle has held senior analyst positions on both the buy and sell side at Merriman, B. Riley, Unterberg/Diker Capital, S-Squared, Dain Rauscher Wessels and UBS. While Mr. Searle started his career focused on wireless technology, his experience on the buy-side as well as his more recent sell-side work has diversified his expertise across virtually all areas of technology with most recently a thematic focus on “Internet of Things” (IoT).
“Brian and Scott’s addition to our technology team comes at a time when we are expanding our footprint in the technology sector. Brian’s experience and knowledge of the small-cap technology companies will help us take our work in the sector to a new level,” said Byron Roth, CEO of ROTH Capital Partners. “Scott’s strong technica l background and research experience will reinforce and expand our already deep domain expertise and presence in the sector.”
“Scott is our fifth dedicated research analyst in the technology sector, joining Darren Aftahi, Richard Baldry, CFA, Suji Desilva, and Bill Gibson who already cover over 60 technology names for the firm,” said Jeff Martin, CFA, Director of Research and Senior Research Analyst at ROTH Capital Partners.
“I am very excited for the opportunity to join the talented Technology Team at ROTH, and look forward to leveraging the firm’s tremendous reputation and platform to build and extend our presence in Communications, Wireless and the Internet of Things (IoT),” said Mr. Searle.
Mr. Alger commented, “I am excited to leverage the considerable resources that ROTH has developed in the Technology sector. After three years of heading up and working side by side with the technology analyst team, I look forward to applying that experience to assist companies with their capital requirements and strategic development of their growth endeavors.”
Mr. Searle will be working at the firm’s New York office, while Mr. Alger continues to be based in San Francisco.
ROTH has assisted its Technology clients in rising over $4.6 billion in approximately 140 transactions since 2010. *Past Performance is not indicative of future returns. (Source: ROTH Capital Partners | 12/20/2017)
About Roth Capital Partners, LLC:
ROTH Capital Partners, LLC (ROTH), is a relationship-driven investment bank focused on serving emerging growth companies and their investors. As a full-service investment bank, ROTH provides capital raising, M&A advisory, analytical research, trading, market-making services and corporate access. Headquartered in Newport Beach, CA, ROTH is privately-held and employee owned, and maintains offices throughout the U.S. For more information on ROTH, please visit www.roth.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005252/en/
ROTH Capital Partners
Isabel Mattson-Pain
Director of Marketing & Corporate Access
949-720-7117
Imattson-pain@roth.com
Source: ROTH Capital Partners