NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on VYGR, CBM, EBS, and XON which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . WallStEquities.com shifts focus on four Biotech stocks, namely: Voyager Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: VYGR), Cambrex Corp. (NYSE: CBM), Emergent BioSolutions Inc. (NYSE: EBS), and Intrexon Corp. (NYSE: XON). According to a Reuters article, Baker McKenzie predicts that global healthcare M&A could rise 50 percent in 2018, with North America accounting for well over half of transactions. Driving the demand is the increasingly pivotal role of biotech firms in discovering the drugs of tomorrow. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Voyager Therapeutics
Cambridge, Massachusetts headquartered Voyager Therapeutics Inc.'s shares recorded a trading volume of 212,557 shares last Friday. The stock finished the trading session 0.60% higher at $18.38. The Company's shares have surged 37.57% in the last month and 54.19% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 21.12% and 41.22%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Voyager Therapeutics, which focuses on the development of treatments for patients suffering from severe diseases of the central nervous system, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 66.29. Get the full research report on VYGR for free by clicking below at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=VYGR
Cambrex
On Friday, East Rutherford, New Jersey headquartered Cambrex Corp.'s stock ended the session 0.29% lower at $51.65. A total volume of 151,200 shares was traded. The Company's shares have gained 3.92% in the last month. The stock is trading 6.39% above its 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Cambrex, which provides various products and services for the development and commercialization of new and generic therapeutics worldwide, have an RSI of 60.19. The free technical report on CBM can be accessed at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CBM
Emergent BioSolutions
Gaithersburg, Maryland headquartered Emergent BioSolutions Inc.'s stock ended the day 1.19% higher at $47.54 with a total trading volume of 208,146 shares. The Company's shares have gained 4.53% in the last month, 19.21% over the previous three months, and 57.47% over the past year. The stock is trading 8.80% and 29.45% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Emergent BioSolutions, which focuses on the development, manufacture, and commercialization of medical countermeasures that address public health threats, have an RSI of 58.55.
On January 03 rd , 2018, Emergent BioSolutions announced that a member of the Company's senior management team will participate in the RBC Capital Markets – 2018 Global Healthcare Conference on February 21 st , 2018, to February 22 nd , 2018 in New York. The member will also participate in the Cowen & Co. – 38 th Annual Health Care Conference on March 12 th , 2018, to March 14 th , 2018 in Boston, Massachusetts. Sign up for free on Wall St. Equities and claim the latest report on EBS at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=EBS
Intrexon
Shares in Germantown, Maryland-based Intrexon Corp. recorded a trading volume of 2.55 million shares, which was above their three months average volume of 1.61 million shares. The stock ended Friday's session 11.27% higher at $14.71. The Company's shares have gained 15.55% in the last month. The stock is trading above its 50-day moving average by 10.83%. Furthermore, shares of Intrexon, which operates in the synthetic biology field in the US, have an RSI of 63.39.
On January 12 th , 2018, AquaBounty Technologies, Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Intrexon, announced that it has priced an underwritten public offering of an aggregate of 3,692,307 shares of common stock of the Company, together with warrants to purchase up to 3,692,307 shares of its common stock, at an offering price of $3.25 per share and associated warrant. The offering is expected to close on or about January 17 th , 2018, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions. See the free research coverage on XON at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=XON
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author