ATLANTA, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Graphic Packaging International, LLC (NYSE: GPK) announced the appointment of Mike Farrell to Senior Vice President, Supply Chain. Farrell will have responsibility for procurement, logistics, operations planning, quality processes and Lean/Six Sigma. He will also lead the supply chain integration of the newly combined Consumer Packaging business from International Paper.
Farrell joined GPI in 2006 as general manager of the Middletown, Ohio mill and progressed to the role of senior manufacturing manager of the West Monroe, Louisiana mill. In 2013, he was promoted to Vice President, Recycled Board Mills where he has led the coated recycled board mill system to strong safety, quality and productivity results. "Mike's deep knowledge and expertise across our mills makes him extremely well-qualified to lead the supply chain team as they deliver on their priorities and integrate our new businesses," said President and CEO Michael Doss.
About Graphic Packaging International
Graphic Packaging International, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is committed to providing consumer packaging that makes a world of difference. The Company is a leading provider of paper-based packaging solutions for a wide variety of products to food, beverage, foodservice, and other consumer product companies. The Company operates on a global basis, is one of the largest producers of folding cartons and paper-based foodservice products in the United States, and holds leading market positions in solid bleached sulfate paperboard, coated unbleached kraft paperboard and coated-recycled paperboard. The Company's customers include many of the world's most widely recognized companies and brands. Additional information about Graphic Packaging, its business and its products is available on the Company's web site at www.graphicpkg.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mike-farrell-appointed-as-svp-supply-chain-for-graphic-packaging-international-300581518.html
SOURCE Graphic Packaging International