SAN ANTONIO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- EnCap Flatrock Midstream (“EnCap Flatrock”) today announced the promotion of Sam Pitts to partner. Mr. Pitts, who anchors the firm’s Houston office, joined EnCap Flatrock Midstream as managing director in 2014. He serves on the board of directors of several EnCap Flatrock portfolio companies including Aspen Midstream, LLC; Greenfield Midstream, LLC; Moda Midstream, LLC; Nuevo Midstream Dos, LLC; and Tradition Midstream, LLC.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005570/en/
EnCap Flatrock Midstream Partner Sam Pitts (Photo: Business Wire)
“Sam has played an instrumental role in our success. He has brought important new relationships to the firm and has strengthened existing alliances through his board service and his work with our investors. His performance has met and exceeded every expectation we had when he accepted our invitation to join the firm,” said EnCap Flatrock Midstream Founder and Managing Partner Billy Lemmons. “We are fortunate to have a deep pool of talent that represents our next-generation leadership. Sam has been integral to our growth. We’re pleased to promote him to a senior leadership role.”
“I am grateful to be part of this outstanding team. I am also very excited about what lies ahead for our midstream companies and the upstream producers they work with as we enter a new year and a new chapter in EnCap Flatrock’s unique growth story,” Mr. Pitts said.
Prior to joining EnCap Flatrock Midstream, Mr. Pitts was part of the senior leadership team at Citigroup’s Global Energy Investment Banking Group. In this capacity, he focused on financial advisory work related to mergers, acquisitions and divestitures within the midstream and upstream sectors, as well as public and private capital market raises. Mr. Pitts holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in finance from the University of Texas at Austin.
About EnCap Flatrock Midstream
EnCap Flatrock Midstream provides value-added growth capital to proven management teams focused on midstream infrastructure opportunities across North America. The firm was formed in 2008 by a partnership between EnCap Investments L.P. and Flatrock Energy Advisors, LLC. Based in San Antonio with offices in Oklahoma City and Houston, EnCap Flatrock is led by Managing Partners and Founders William D. Waldrip, Dennis F. Jaggi and William R. Lemmons, Jr., Managing Partners Gregory C. King and David J. Kurtz, and Partners Dennis J. McCanless and Sam Pitts. The firm manages investment commitments of nearly $6 billion from a broad group of prestigious institutional investors. EnCap Flatrock is currently making commitments to new management teams from EFM Fund III, a $3 billion fund. For more information please visit www.efmidstream.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005570/en/
TEN|10 Group, LLC
Casey Nikoloric
303-433-4397 x101 o
303-507-0510 m
casey.nikoloric@ten10group.com
Source: EnCap Flatrock Midstream