The Company is Positioned for Continued and Significant Growth in 2018
WALNUT CREEK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ascension Insurance , a premier insurance brokerage that offers superior risk-management, benefits, and TPA-consulting services through its family of brands across the U.S., today announced it has changed its name to Relation Insurance Services . The new name reflects the company’s commitment to helping mid-market companies navigate the complex world of insurance by building strong relationships and leveraging the combined mix of the right people, partnerships, processes, and technologies.
The news comes after another impressive year for Relation, with strong year-over-year revenue and EBITDA growth as the company continues to expand organically and through strategic acquisition. Moreover, Relation is making continued investments to aid its growth for 2018 and the years to come.
“Our clients count on us to provide the solutions and services they need through a wide variety of resources, all of which start with our strong industry relationships,” said Chief Executive Officer, Joe Tatum. “We’re able to deliver legendary service by connecting the dots between data, analytics, industry experience, insurance expertise, and our strategic partnerships. We’re very excited about our new name, as it speaks more clearly to who we are as a company and how we conduct our day-to-day business.”
“In a world of increasing complexity, close client relationships and strategic carrier partnerships are only one part of the insurance experience,” said Ed Page, Relation’s President and COO. “Clients need brokers to stay ahead of the curve, provide intelligent, tailored solutions backed by extensive experience, and apply technology and data to drive efficiency, innovation, and a competitive edge. Coming off another stellar year, our new name speaks to how perfectly suited we are to help companies as they respond to the changing business environment, and the risks that follow.”
In 2017, Relation (then known as Ascension Insurance, Inc.) was recognized as a “2017 Elite Agency” by Insurance Business America for the third year in a row, and was also named to Insurance Journal’s 2017 Top 100 Property/Casualty, as well as to Business Insurance’s Top 100 Largest Brokers of U.S. Business.
About Relation
Relation Insurance Services, formerly Ascension Insurance, is a premier insurance broker that offers superior risk-management and benefits-consulting services through its family of brands across the U.S. It is ranked by Insurance Journal within the top 45 largest agencies in the country by revenue and has nearly 500 employees in more than 30 locations nationwide. Relation is a privately held corporation; alongside its private-equity partners, Parthenon Capital and Century Capital Management, the company expects to continue its strong growth trajectory through additional acquisitions and organic growth. Visit relationinsurance.com for more information.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005837/en/
ANW Networks
Emily F. Porro, +1 347-346-3663
emily@anwnetworks.com
Source: Relation Insurance Services