COLUMBIA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Merkle ( www.merkleinc.com ), a leading technology-enabled, data-driven performance marketing agency, announced the appointment of Matt Seeley to executive vice president, technology services of Merkle Americas. In his role, Seeley will be responsible for the strategic vision, service delivery, and overall performance of Merkle’s technology consulting, data management capabilities, and marketing platforms, while remaining closely aligned to Merkle’s alliance partner strategy.
“I’ve always admired Merkle’s talent, intellect, and the depth of its world-class capabilities as well as its passion for fostering long-lasting client relationships,” said Matt. “I’m excited to join an organization that centers itself around serving the customer.”
Prior to Merkle, Matt served as COO at Cheetah Digital and before that, Experian by way of CheetahMail, as part of the founding team in 2000. A pioneer in the email space, Matt helped transform CheetahMail from a $2 million startup into one of the premier global e-mail services organizations. After being acquired by Experian, Matt expanded his role to leading the company’s Marketing Services division in North America— running all e-mail and cross-channel platforms across the globe.
“Matt’s extensive history in this space will be a tremendous asset, and I couldn’t be more thrilled to welcome such a knowledgeable, driven leader to champion Merkle’s technology services for the Americas,” said Craig Dempster, president, Merkle Americas.
Merkle continues to build a bench of seasoned C-level talent in the Americas. Seeley is the most recent hire following Joanne Zaiac’s appointment to chief client officer, Merkle Americas as well as Craig Dempster to president, Merkle Americas.
About Merkle
Merkle is a leading data-driven, technology-enabled, global performance marketing agency that specializes in the delivery of unique, personalized customer experiences across platforms and devices. For more than 30 years, Fortune 1000 companies and leading nonprofit organizations have partnered with Merkle to maximize the value of their customer portfolios. The agency’s heritage in data, technology, and analytics forms the foundation for its unmatched skills in understanding consumer insights that drive people-based marketing strategies. Its combined strengths in performance media, customer experience, customer relationship management, loyalty, and enterprise marketing technology drive improved marketing results and competitive advantage. With 5,200 employees, Merkle is headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with 24 additional offices in the US and 21 offices in Europe and APAC. In 2016, the agency joined the Dentsu Aegis Network. For more information, contact Merkle at 1-877-9-Merkle or visit www.merkleinc.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005432/en/
Merkle Inc.
Sarah Bourdeau, 443-542-4288
SBourdeau@merkleinc.com
Source: Merkle Inc.