NEWARK, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kateeva , a market leader in inkjet deposition equipment solutions for OLED display manufacturing, today announced that it has named May Su as Chief Marketing Officer (CMO). A seasoned semiconductor industry executive, Ms. Su has worked with leading companies, including KLA-Tencor and Lam Research, implementing strategic growth initiatives that strengthened revenue pipelines and enhanced company success. As Kateeva’s CMO she’ll help set and execute the strategy for global growth, while working with display manufacturing customers to seek to optimize their experience with the company’s expanding portfolio of YIELDjet™ deposition equipment solutions .
“We’re pleased to welcome May to Kateeva,” said President and COO, Dr. Conor Madigan. “Her career includes executive roles at public and private companies that delivered innovative technologies to the marketplace. She brings decades of expertise in technology engineering and marketing, and is particularly skilled in managing product lines, identifying product value for customers, and guiding novel technology solutions to market to address complex manufacturing challenges. She will work closely with Kateeva customers on existing applications, and lead programs to extend our technologies to new applications.”
“Kateeva is a significant player in the OLED display manufacturing industry,” said Ms. Su. “Already, smartphones featuring leading-edge OLED displays manufactured using Kateeva’s YIELDjet FLEX systems are in the hands of consumers. Now, customers are evaluating the same core YIELDjet technology to cost-effectively produce next-generation RGB OLED TVs. As a leading supplier of inkjet deposition equipment solutions with distinct advantages, I’m excited to help Kateeva as it works on further applications for its technology, and seeks to maximize its potential and value.”
Ms. Su has spent 30+ years helping semiconductor equipment leaders take innovative technologies and solutions into new markets. Her roles included: Vice President of Corporate Marketing at KLA-Tencor, Product General Manager at Lam Research, President of US and European Operations at Nova Instruments, VP of Strategic Marketing at Brooks Automation, and VP/GM at Crossing Automation and Aviza Technology.
Ms. Su holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell University, a master’s degree in mechanical engineering from UC Berkeley, and an MBA from Santa Clara University.
About Kateeva, Inc.
Kateeva makes inkjet deposition production equipment solutions for manufacturers of OLED displays. The company’s YIELDjet™ precision deposition technology platform uses innovative inkjet printing to deposit coatings in complex applications with high speed and accuracy. Today, Kateeva’s YIELDjet FLEX system is the leading inkjet deposition platform operating for mass production of the organic thin film encapsulation (TFE) layer of mobile OLED displays. Kateeva is headquartered in Silicon Valley, maintains operations in Korea, Taiwan, Japan and China, and is backed by venture capital firms and other investors. www.kateeva.com .
YIELDjet is a trademark of Kateeva, Inc.
Media Contact
Jane Evans-Ryan; Genuity PR for Kateeva; Email: jane@genuitypr.com .
Source: Kateeva