WASHINGTON, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Washington Women in Public Relations (WWPR), a leading resource for female communications professionals in the nation's capital, announced its 2018 Board of Directors. The 2018 board is as follows:
President: Danielle Veira, American Diabetes Association Vice President: Amanda Ott, American Society of Anesthesiologists Past President: Kelly Mack, Administration for Community Living at U.S. Health & Human Services Treasurer: Avelyn Austin, RepEquity Secretary: Carly Whiteside, Powell Tate Strategic Planning Chair: Brittany Floyd, Social Driver Content Marketing Chair: Jennifer Dunn, Business Wire Digital Marketing Co-Chair: Kasey Lum Condra, Hager Sharp Digital Marketing Co-Chair: Christina Francisco, American Diabetes Association Emerging Leaders Awards Co-Chair: Sabrena Pringle, Head Start Information and Communications Center Emerging Leaders Awards Co-Chair: Sara Tuman, Social Driver Membership Co-Chair: Jennifer Sherman, The Influencer Collective Membership Co-Chair: Alex Thompson, PenFed Credit Union Pro Bono Co-Chair: Carrie Johnson, Association of American Colleges and Universities Pro Bono Co-Chair: Bonnie Piper Professional Development Co-Chair: Sarah Beth Cloar Professional Development Co-Chair: Liza Crenshaw, Weber Shandwick Sponsorship: Rachel Racoosin, Axios Woman of the Year Co-Chair: Taylor Leaming, CURA Strategies Woman of the Year Co-Chair: Charlotte Stewart
"As WWPR approaches nearly four decades as DC's hub for female communicators looking to be inspired and to cultivate their skills, we are both immensely proud of how far we've come and excited for the future," said Danielle Veira, 2018 WWPR President. "I'm honored and privileged to lead a board of directors compiled of some of the most talented women in this profession as we continue our mission to provide inspirational professional development opportunities, meaningful networking, valuable knowledge-sharing, and signature events honoring accomplished women in communications."
The board induction meeting featured a keynote from Lisa Osborne Ross, President of Edelman's office in Washington, D.C., and 2003 PR Woman of the Year. Ross, a D.C. native and industry veteran who has championed inclusivity and diversity throughout her varied career, spoke about the importance of authenticity, mentorship and perseverance for professionals at every level.
Throughout 2018, WWPR will host various professional development and networking events for female communicators at every stage in their careers, along with two signature events: The Emerging Leader Awards and The PR Woman of the Year Awards. To learn more about WWPR and upcoming events, visit http://wwpr.org/events/ .
ABOUT WASHINGTON WOMEN IN PUBLIC RELATIONS
Washington Women in Public Relations (WWPR) is a member-based professional society cultivating and inspiring female communicators to reach their full potential in the DC market and beyond. The organization is committed to providing leadership opportunities, professional development, mentorship, and industry networking. Visit us at wwpr.org , connect with us on LinkedIn and Facebook , and follow us on Twitter @WWPR and on Instagram @WWPRDC .
For more information contact:
Digital Marketing
info@wwpr.org
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wwpr-inducts-2018-board-of-directors-with-keynote-from-lisa-osborne-ross-edleman-300589639.html
SOURCE Washington Women in Public Relations