SAN DIEGO, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WCG is pleased to announce that Shannon Bledsoe has been appointed to Executive Director.
"I am pleased to have Shannon move into this leadership role as WCG's Executive Director," said Saundra Pelletier, Chair of the WCG Board of Directors. "WCG has already benefited greatly from Shannon's extensive experience and proven track record in the field of reproductive and sexual health and we look forward to her future contributions as WCG continues to deliver on its mission to educate, empower and enable girls and women."
As Executive Director, Ms. Bledsoe will be responsible for leading overall organizational growth and strategic direction, and overseeing the quality of WCG's programming. She brings nearly 20 years of experience in international development, public health, and reproductive rights to this position, leading programs and platforms for both large and small global non-profit organizations. In these leadership roles, Ms. Bledsoe raised nearly $100 million dollars to support the implementation of global programs. Ms. Bledsoe has designed and managed initiatives supporting women's reproductive health worldwide, and consulted with clients ranging from Yale University to small local organizations on social marketing and addressing barriers to access. Ms. Bledsoe led country platforms in Haiti, Cote d'Ivoire, and the Central African Republic and has worked, lived, and traveled in more than 40 countries. She has an advanced degree from the University of Melbourne, Australia and a BA from the University of California, San Diego.
"Under Saundra Pelletier's leadership since founding the non-profit organization in 2009, WCG has become a major player in the reproductive health care space with innovative programs and partnerships," said Shannon Bledsoe. "I am honored to continue Saundra's exceptional work by growing WCG's partner relationships and programs with the goal of empowering women and girls to make informed choices about their health while increasing access to safe, reliable, and affordable contraceptive options."
About WCG
WCG is an international non-profit organization committed to empowering, educating and enabling girls and women to make informed choices and access critical reproductive health products and services. WCG's credentials in product introduction have made it a preferred partner of organizations looking to move products from laboratories and manufacturing plants to the women who need them. WCG excels at forming strategic partnerships to introduce and create access to new contraceptive methods around the world. WCG's quality and regulatory department is experienced in the global registration of drugs and devices, and in aiding manufacturers to improve their processes to meet international best practices. WCG creates options for women when it comes to their reproductive health — no matter where they live. For more information, please visit www.wcgcares.org .
Ellen Thomas
VP, Corporate Communications
Phone: +1.718.490.3248
E-mail: ethomas@wcgcares.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shannon-bledsoe-named-executive-director-of-wcg-300587265.html
SOURCE WCG