BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- H.I.G. Capital ("H.I.G."), a leading global private equity investment firm with $24 billion of equity capital under management, is pleased to announce that one of its affiliates has acquired Town & Country Holdings, Inc. (“T&C” or the “Company”), the parent company of Town & Country Living.
Founded in 1954 and headquartered in Lakewood, NJ, T&C is the recognized leader in home textiles specializing in table linens, kitchen textiles, rugs, and innovative solution-based home products. The company is a leading supplier of both licensed brands and private label programs to major retailers across the globe.
“David and Jeffrey Beyda have successfully positioned T&C as a true partner to its customers and licensors. We believe T&C’s existing product and service offerings provide a great foundation for growth,” said Todd Ofenloch, Managing Director at H.I.G. “We look forward to working with the Beydas to grow the company.”
“H.I.G. is the right partner for us. They understand our history, our business today, and the future growth strategy required to take Town and Country to the next level. The H.I.G. team brings to bear tremendous resources that will enable us to execute on our growth strategy more quickly than we could on our own,” said David Beyda, T&C’s Chairman and CEO.
The Town & Country investment will serve as a platform investment in the home textiles and accessories sector, with H.I.G. strongly expecting to rapidly pursue add-on acquisitions in the space.
About Town & Country Holdings, Inc.
Town and Country is a leading supplier of kitchen textiles, table linens, bath textiles and accessories, performance and decorative rugs and mats, and other home products to retailers throughout North America. With a history of long-tenured customer relationships, Town and Country has built a service track record, robust sourcing platform, and a unique inventory and supply-chain management system enabling the Company to become the preferred provider of kitchen and table linen products to the some of the world’s largest retailers.
About H.I.G. Capital
H.I.G. is a leading global private equity and alternative assets investment firm with $24 billion of equity capital under management.* Based in Miami, and with offices in New York, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Atlanta in the U.S., as well as international affiliate offices in London, Hamburg, Madrid, Milan, Paris, Bogotá, Mexico City and Rio de Janeiro, H.I.G. specializes in providing both debt and equity capital to small and mid-sized companies, utilizing a flexible and operationally focused/ value-added approach:
1. H.I.G.’s equity funds invest in management buyouts, recapitalizations and corporate carve-outs of both profitable as well as underperforming manufacturing and service businesses.
2. H.I.G.’s debt funds invest in senior, unitranche and junior debt financing to companies across the size spectrum, both on a primary (direct origination) basis, as well as in the secondary markets. H.I.G. is also a leading CLO manager, through its WhiteHorse family of vehicles, and manages a publicly traded BDC, WhiteHorse Finance.
3. H.I.G.’s real estate funds invest in value-added properties, which can benefit from improved asset management practices.
Since its founding in 1993, H.I.G. has invested in and managed more than 300 companies worldwide. The firm's current portfolio includes more than 100 companies with combined sales in excess of $30 billion. For more information, please refer to the H.I.G. website at www.higcapital.com .
* Based on total capital commitments managed by H.I.G. Capital and affiliates.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005911/en/
H.I.G. Capital
Todd Ofenloch, 617-262-8455
Managing Director
tofenloch@higcapital.com
Source: H.I.G. Capital