SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Alation Inc. , the collaborative data company, today announced the addition of Ken Hoang as vice president of strategy and alliances. Hoang brings more than 25 years of technology expertise to the role, including experience as a chief technology officer, chief executive officer and founder of enterprise technology companies. As the founder of Siperian, Hoang was at the forefront of leveraging metadata for data management and a pioneer in master data management (MDM). As VP of strategy and alliances, Hoang will oversee strategic and technical partnerships for Alation.
“From master data management to data integration and analytics, Ken is an industry veteran who implicitly understands the technologies that are important to our customers. His experience will be invaluable as we expand our ecosystem of system integrators and deepen our partnerships with leading technology providers,” said Satyen Sangani, CEO, Alation. “With the addition of Ken, we are well positioned to reach more companies and empower them to experience the value of trusted self-service analytics.”
Hoang is an executive leader and a five-time founder with proven operational experience in enterprise applications and software. Hoang founded and served as CEO and CTO of Siperian, which pioneered the MDM market. Following Siperian’s acquisition by Informatica in 2010, he was CTO of Informatica’s MDM and data quality division. Hoang was also previously the VP of Strategy, Network and OpenData at Veeva Systems, a leading vendor of cloud-based business solutions for the global life sciences industry.
“For years, enterprises have been investing in large data hubs, including data warehouses, MDM, operational repositories, and most recently, data lakes. Alation adds value to those investments, bridging silos to provide answers to meaningful questions and allowing organizations to find, understand, trust and use their data,” Hoang said. “Alation provides a platform that enables users to leverage data more effectively and creates opportunities for system integrators and developers to create powerful contextual applications on top of the consolidated metadata. I’m excited to join this inventive team, help grow Alation’s presence and reach more customers with the power of a curated data catalog.”
To learn more about partnering with Alation, visit alation.com/partner-inquiry . For more information about Alation’s data catalog, visit alation.com/about .
About Alation
Alation, the leader in collaborative data cataloging, empowers analysts and information stewards to search, query and collaborate for faster, more accurate insights. The Alation platform leverages artificial intelligence to automatically capture the rich context of enterprise data, including relationships between data sets, analyst usage and trusted insights. Customers include Albertsons, eBay, Pfizer, Square, and some of the world’s largest financial services firms. Headquartered in Silicon Valley, Alation is funded by Costanoa Ventures, Data Collective, Harmony Partners, and Icon Ventures. For more information, visit alation.com .
Supporting Resources
Company: https://alation.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/Alation
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/alation
Media Contact
Sheridan Smalley
LEWIS for Alation
alation@teamlewis.com
(415) 432-2447
Source: Alation