Round of funding comes on the heels of AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google and IBM endorsing Tigera as the solution of choice for secure application connectivity across Kubernetes workloads
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Tigera, a company delivering solutions for secure application connectivity for the cloud native world, today announced that they raised an additional $10M in funding to accelerate their mission to simplify and secure application connectivity across all cloud environments.
The most recent round was led by Madrona Venture Group with participation from New Enterprise Associates (NEA) and Wing Venture Capital, and brought total funding to more than $23M. Soma Somasegar, managing director at Madrona Venture Group, has joined Tigera’s Board of Directors.
“Nearly every enterprise we speak with has a near term initiative to deliver cloud native applications,” said Ratan Tipirneni, president and CEO of Tigera. “Those applications are more dynamic, more distributed, dynamically orchestrated and running across multiple clouds. Workloads, networks and infrastructure in these environments can't be trusted, yet secure application connectivity is non-negotiable.”
Tigera is an open core enterprise software company delivering solutions for secure application connectivity. Tigera’s enterprise solution, CNX, was launched last month and already has been picked by several Fortune 1,000 companies to connect and secure their container, virtual machine and bare metal host workloads across all public clouds and on-premises legacy workloads. CNX secures application connectivity using Tigera’s unique ZT-Auth TM technology, which enables the enterprise to adopt a Zero Trust approach to application connectivity.
“We launched CNX last month to provide a zero trust approach to application connectivity for cloud native applications, across multi-cloud and legacy environments,” said Tipirneni. “We’ve built CNX from the ground up to be operationally simple while providing the controls and compliance demanded by the enterprise. We have seen incredible traction and have already closed several significant enterprise deals. This round of funding enables us to accelerate investment in product management, sales and marketing that is needed to respond to the surge in demand for CNX.”
“While containers and microservices have been the rage for the past 18 to 24 months, the complexity that grows from this technology quickly escalates to an unmanageable level from an application connectivity and security perspective,” said Soma Somasegar, managing director at Madrona Venture Group. “Tigera is addressing a very important part of this complexity for enterprise customers by delivering a secure application connectivity solution in a cloud native world. That’s why we are very excited to invest in Tigera.”
Just prior to this funding, Tigera was selected by each of the big four public cloud providers as the network policy provider for their managed Kubernetes offerings. Tigera’s software is integrated into AWS Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes , Microsoft Azure Container Service , Google Container Engine and IBM Cloud Container Service .
In addition, the company has expanded its executive team by appointing enterprise software veterans Amit Gupta to Vice President of Product Management and Andy Wright to Vice President of Marketing.
More information
Learn about Tigera CNX Read the Tigera Blog Follow Tigera on Twitter
About Tigera
Tigera delivers solutions for secure application connectivity for the cloud native world. Tigera technology is used by the world’s largest enterprises and public cloud providers to power connectivity for application development and deployment and to address the connectivity and security challenges that arise in at-scale production. Tigera CNX meets enterprise needs for zero trust network security, multi-cloud and legacy environment support, organizational control and compliance, and operational simplicity. CNX builds on leading open source projects Kubernetes, Calico, and Istio, which Tigera engineers help maintain and contribute to as active members of the cloud native community.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005973/en/
Tigera, Inc.
Andy Wright, 415-361-3594
andy.wright@tigera.io
or
Scott Samson, 415-781-9005
scott@samsonpr.com
Source: Tigera, Inc.