CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Common Sensing, manufacturer of injectable medicine hardware and software support tools, announced today the appointment of Kevin Schmid as Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Schmid brings extensive business development and operations leadership experience, having previously served in pivotal roles at Insulet Corporation, Bose Corporation, JDS Uniphase, and the Stevanato Group.
"Kevin's addition to the Common Sensing team represents our commitment to meet the market demand for supporting users of injectable medicine," said James White, Common Sensing President. "With a rapidly growing number of Gocap customers for 2018, it is essential to have an industry leader like Kevin Schmid to drive operational excellence and expanded business development efforts."
During his time at Insulet Corporation, Mr. Schmid was instrumental in the development, industrialization, and commercialization of wearable, smart drug delivery pumps, such as the Omnipod Diabetes Management System, the Amgen Neulasta On Body Injector, and the Ferring Pharmaceutical LutrePulse System. Millions of patients who do not prefer—or do not have access to—these drug delivery pumps continue to rely on disposable injector pens for their medication. These pens lack the modern connectivity and data reporting features of drug delivery pumps, which are critical to treatment quality and improved outcomes for diabetes, infertility, obesity, and other indications.
A member of Common Sensing's board of directors since November of 2015, Kevin is excited to play a more active role in Common Sensing's growth. "Common Sensing's Gocap technology is a tremendous opportunity to bring easy-to-use, cost-effective dose monitoring and reporting solutions to millions of people dosing as outpatients," said Kevin Schmid, Common Sensing Chief Operating Officer.
Kevin Schmid - LinkedIn
About Common Sensing
Common Sensing develops and manufactures data-driven hardware and software solutions for people using injectable medicine. Founded in 2012, Common Sensing has assembled a team of talented designers and engineers to develop Gocap™, the first smart cap that turns existing injector pens into smart injectors. Gocap connects insulin, GLP-1, fertility hormone, and human growth hormone injector pens to the cloud to improve outcomes and make everyday treatment more convenient. Based in Cambridge, MA, Common Sensing's investors include Waterline Ventures, Qualcomm Ventures, and Sanofi.
www.common-sensing.com
Media Contact
Kelly Pavao
T: +1 (774) 488-6458
E: contact@common-sensing.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/common-sensing-announces-kevin-schmid-as-chief-operating-officer-300578505.html
SOURCE Common Sensing