4 COMMENTS Texas Gov. Greg Abbott on Tuesday called for a state criminal investigation into allegations of misconduct at the Karolyi Ranch, USA Gymnastics’ training facility outside Houston, where a number of top gymnasts say they were sexually abused by longtime national team doctor Larry Nassar.
The move comes a week after a Michigan judge sentenced Mr. Nassar to up to 175 years in prison on state sexual-abuse charges, following emotional testimony by more than 150 of his victims. The televised sentencing drew attention and outrage to a scandal that has simmered for well over a year, since reports of Mr. Nassar’s abuse first emerged in September 2016.
In a letter posted on his official state website, Mr. Abbott cited the “recent, shocking allegations” at the sentencing hearing and pledged to bring “perpetrators and enablers” of any misconduct at the Karolyi Ranch to justice.
U.S. Olympic Gold Medalist Aly Raisman blasted the USOC and USA Gymnastics in a Lansing, Mich., courtroom on Friday before the sentencing of former team doctor Larry Nassar. Photo: AP A lawyer for Bela and Martha Karolyi, who own the ranch and for years oversaw training camps there for the U.S. national team, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
Earlier this month, USA Gymnastics announced it would no longer use the ranch for national team camps , following calls from Olympians Aly Raisman and Simone Biles to abandon the facility.
Mr. Abbott asked the Texas Rangers at the state Department of Public Safety to investigate the matter. He said the Rangers would cooperate with the Walker County Sheriff’s Department, which already has an active investigation into the matter.
On Tuesday afternoon, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Public Safety said the Rangers would “immediately” open an investigation into the matter, alongside local and federal law enforcement, and would present “any related evidence” to prosecutors for review.
The probe will be the Rangers’ second investigation into the ranch. In the fall of 2016, the Rangers opened a criminal investigation after a former national-team member reported that Mr. Nassar sexually assaulted her over a number of years at the remote site, a Department of Public Safety spokesman told The Wall Street Journal last year.
That investigation, which ultimately expanded to include three victims, was transferred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Detroit in early 2017, the spokesman said. The FBI and federal prosecutors in Michigan haven’t charged Mr. Nassar in connection with any alleged crimes committed at the Ranch.
Mr. Nassar pleaded guilty last summer to federal child pornography counts and was sentenced separately to 60 years in prison on those counts.
More Michigan State Athletic Director Mark Hollis to Retire (Jan. 26) Jason Gay: They Are a Force. He Is Nothing. And Now? (Jan. 25) Former USA Gymnastics Doctor Larry Nassar Sentenced to Up to 175 Years for Sexual Abuse (Jan. 24) Olympic Gymnast Simone Biles Alleges Sexual Abuse by U.S. Team Doctor (Jan. 15)