RA’ANANA, Israel and NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- UroGen Pharma Ltd. (Nasdaq:URGN), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing treatments to address unmet needs in the field of urology, with a focus on uro-oncology, today announced that it filed a registration statement on Form F-1 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with a public offering of 1,135,847 ordinary shares. The company intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase 170,377 additional ordinary shares at the public offering price, less the underwriting discounts and commissions. All ordinary shares to be sold in the offering will be offered by the company.
Jefferies LLC and Cowen and Company, LLC are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. and National Securities Corporation are acting as co-managers for the offering.
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC, but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. When available, copies of the preliminary prospectus relating to and describing the terms of the offering may be obtained from Jefferies LLC, Attention: Equity Syndicate Prospectus Department, 520 Madison Avenue, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10022, telephone: (877) 547-6340, e-mail: Prospectus_Department@Jefferies.com , or from Cowen and Company, LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, Attn: Prospectus Department, by telephone at (631) 274-2806 or by fax at (631) 254-7140.
About UroGen Pharma Ltd.
UroGen Pharma Ltd. (Nasdaq:URGN) is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing advanced non-surgical treatments to address unmet needs in the field of urology, with a focus on uro-oncology. The Company has developed RTGel™, a proprietary sustained release, hydrogel-based formulation for potentially improving therapeutic profiles of existing drugs. UroGen Pharma's lead product candidates, MitoGel™ and VesiGel™, are designed to potentially remove tumors by non-surgical means and to treat several forms of non-muscle invasive urothelial cancer, including low-grade upper tract urothelial carcinoma and bladder cancer. UroGen Pharma is headquartered in Ra’anana, Israel and maintains a corporate office in New York City.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including with respect to the timing and size of the offering and the anticipated use of proceeds, which statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to those that are described in the Risk Factors section of the preliminary prospectus for this offering filed with the SEC on January 16, 2018 and other filings that UroGen Pharma makes with the SEC from time to time (which are available at http://www.sec.gov ), the events and circumstances discussed in such forward-looking statements may not occur, and UroGen Pharma’s actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied thereby. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release and are based on information available to UroGen Pharma as of the date of this release.
UROGEN CONTACTS:
Christine Cassiano
Corporate Affairs Officer
ChristineC@urogen.com
714-552-0326
Or
Kate Bechtold
Director, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations
KateB@urogen.com
914-552-0456
Source:UroGen Pharma Ltd.