HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc. (NYSE: HLX) announced today the appointment of Geoffrey (Geoff) Wagner as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Mr. Wagner has more than 15 years of experience in the energy industry. Prior to joining Helix, Mr. Wagner spent several years in executive leadership with Atwood Oceanics, a global provider of offshore drilling services, serving as Vice President of Strategic Planning, Vice President of Technical Services and Supply Chain and Vice President of Marketing and Business Development. Mr. Wagner joined Atwood from Transocean, where he spent five years in various management positions with increasing responsibility, and prior to that, he worked with SeaRiver Maritime, a subsidiary of ExxonMobil. Mr. Wagner holds an MBA from the Jones Graduate School of Business at Rice University and an undergraduate degree in Marine Engineering and Nautical Science from the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York.
In connection with Mr. Wagner’s appointment, Owen Kratz, Chief Executive Officer of Helix, stated, "We are excited to have Geoff join Helix. He complements our executive leadership team, and we believe his experience and drive makes him the right choice to lead our company’s commercial strategy. We also expect to benefit as a company from Geoff’s past experience in operational execution and process development."
About Helix
Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc., headquartered in Houston, Texas, is an international offshore energy services company that provides specialty services to the offshore energy industry, with a focus on well intervention and robotics operations. For more information about Helix, please visit our website at www.HelixESG.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, any statements regarding our strategy; any statements regarding visibility and future utilization; any projections of financial items; any statements regarding future operations expenditures; any statements regarding the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. The forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors including but not limited to the performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; actions by governmental and regulatory authorities; operating hazards and delays; our ultimate ability to realize current backlog; employee management issues; complexities of global political and economic developments; geologic risks; volatility of oil and gas prices and other risks described from time to time in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Company's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, which are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov . We assume no obligation and do not intend to update these forward-looking statements except as required by the securities laws.
Social Media
From time to time we provide information about Helix on Twitter ( @Helix_ESG ) and LinkedIn ( www.linkedin.com/company/helix-energy-solutions-group ).
About Helix
Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc., headquartered in Houston, Texas, is an international offshore energy services company that provides specialty services to the offshore energy industry, with a focus on well intervention and robotics operations. For more information about Helix, please visit our website at www.HelixESG.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005905/en/
Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc.
Erik Staffeldt, 281-618-0400
Senior Vice President & CFO
Source: Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc.