1 COMMENTS Good morning. Given the nasty wintry weather, it’s the perfect weekend to hunker down with a book, and there’s one new release that’s dominated the news agenda over the past few days. Publisher Henry Holt & Co. pushed forward the release of “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House” by Michael Wolff to this Friday, thanks to surging demand for the title. And if the publisher was searching for a line to use in the launch marketing, how about “the book the White House doesn’t want you to read,” after a lawyer for President Trump sent a cease and desist letter, demanding the book’s publication be halted. The Trump bump traverses all forms of media—not just TV news and newspapers.
I Will Try to Fix You Mark Zuckerberg’s recent New Year’s resolutions have ranged from the easily achievable to the ambitious. In 2009 he decided to wear a tie everyday; the following year he tasked himself with speedily learning Mandarin. For 2018, he has set his boldest challenge yet: to fix Facebook . Mr. Zuckerberg said the social network has made “too many errors enforcing our policies and preventing misuse of our tools.” Facebook has had to come to terms with people using the scale and automated nature of its platform to spread fake news and share violent videos, Russian-back entities commandeering its tools to spread divisive messages, and the realization that social media can be damaging to people’s mental health. How, exactly, Mr. Zuckerberg plans to assess whether he’s achieved his goal at the end of 2018 isn’t clear, but the acknowledgment that there are problems that need to be fixed will likely be welcomed by marketers. Brand safety isn’t just about ad adjacency. It’s also increasingly about marketers making moral decisions to ensure their budgets are being spent on platforms that aim to be a benefit to society and not a threat.
Show Me the Money As far as Facebook’s ad business is concerned, there’s no suggestion things are looking anything but rosy at the moment. A survey of 50 senior U.S. ad buyers by analysts at Cowen found Facebook and Instagram ad budgets will increase in 2018 and 2019 , while spending on Google ads will decline slightly, CNBC reported. Some 41% of those surveyed said Facebook video ads are the best vehicle to launch a campaign, beating out TV (25%) and YouTube (10%). The findings came at the expense of Snap, whose shares closed down 5% on Thursday after Cowen analyst John Blackledge downgraded the stock to “underperform” from “market perform.” Mr. Blackledge wrote in a note that 96% of ad buyers would prefer to advertise on Instagram Stories versus Snap Ads. That said, more than 50% of those polled had yet to purchase either format, so there’s an opportunity for Snap—which is in the middle of rolling out its new redesign—to strike now.
Search For the Hero Inside Yourself For all this talk of shiny, new ad platforms, a stalwart ad format “ is on the cusp of a renaissance ,” according to Brandon Verblow, an associate forecast analyst at Forrester. He says more attention is going to be paid to search, the “sleepy mainstay of the digital advertising market,” thanks to a perfect storm of recent developments. 1) Mr. Verblow thinks search ads are less vulnerable to new privacy restrictions like Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation and the upcoming update to the ePrivacy Directive, nor are they likely to be badly affected by new company-led initiatives like Apple’s Intelligent Tracking Prevention. 2) Search isn’t as vulnerable to brand safety issues as other formats. 3) As more consumers begin their purchase journeys directly on Amazon, more advertising dollars will be spent on its search ads. 4) Voice search is coming, bringing more dynamism to the search advertising market. Forrester still predicts that search advertising’s share of the digital ad market will continue to decline over the next five years, but the shrinkage will be gradual as search becomes sexier.
Talent Show You may recall there has been some debate in the creative community about how committed the streamlined, new Fox company will be to its broadcast network following 21st Century Fox’s decision to sell key assets--including the Twentieth Century Fox Television studio--to Disney. At the Television Critics Association press tour on Thursday, leadership of Fox Television Group attempted to downplay those concerns as the network is separated from the television studio that makes most of its content, the WSJ’s Joe Flint reported. Fox TV Group CEO Dana Walden said entertainment will remain the primary focus. There are independent studios that can supply programming, and shows that currently air on the Fox network won’t suddenly move to a Disney-owned outlet like ABC once the deal closes, she said. Indeed, Fox announced Thursday it had renewed “The Gifted,” a drama produced by Twentieth Century Fox, based on Marvel’s X-Men characters. Another piece of news from the tour of note for marketers: “Family Guy” will air an episode with a reduced ad loa d for the first time in March. Reminder: 21st Century Fox and Wall Street Journal parent company News Corp share common ownership.
Best of the rest CBS is bringing short clips from “The Late Late Show with James Corden” and “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” to Facebook Watch. [ Variety ]
Twitter promoted its head of U.S. agency development, Stephanie Prager, to head of global agency development, consolidating the two roles. Ms. Prager says key areas of focus will be video and helping to develop collaborations between brands on Twitter. [ Adweek ]
The Weinstein Co. is close to a sale and could go for less than $500 million. [ WSJ ]
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai canceled his scheduled appearance at next week’s tech industry trade show CES after receiving death threats, sources said. Under Mr. Pai’s leadership, the FCC voted to repeal net-neutrality rules in December. [ Recode ]
Why many early ad tech companies have recently decided to streamline once they hit scale. [ AdExchanger ]
Billionaires Robert Mercer and Rebekah Mercer and other Breitbart News Network board members on Thursday were debating whether to oust Steve Bannon as chairman of the conservative news site, according to a person familiar with the exchanges. The Mercers, Mr. Bannon’s longtime benefactors, are actively distancing themselves from him before the release of Michael Wolff’s book that has roiled President Trump and Mr. Bannon’s relationship. [ WSJ ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.o'reilly@wsj.com