NEW YORK, FTI Consulting, Inc. (NYSE:FCN) today announced the appointment of Elliot Sloane , former Chief Executive Officer and founder of Sloane & Company, as a Senior Managing Director in the firm’s Strategic Communications segment. Mr. Sloane will report to Brian Kennedy , the segment’s Head of the Americas.
Mr. Sloane, who will be based in New York, brings nearly 35 years of experience to FTI Consulting, having worked on some of the most vital, complex and dynamic client engagements in the corporate, financial, investor relations, public affairs, policy and crisis arenas. He has led integrated communications programs for a wide array of clients across numerous industries, including media, entertainment, financial services, gaming, leisure and hospitality, energy and healthcare. He has also worked on some of the highest profile activist campaigns, M&A transactions, insider trading cases and restructuring engagements over the last three decades.
“With decades of experience helping companies manage complex communications challenges successfully, Elliot’s reputation as an entrepreneur and leading expert in our industry is well-earned,” Mr. Kennedy said. “His talent and experience, together with the deep multi-disciplinary expertise we have across FTI Consulting’s management consulting platform, will add value for our clients on day one and further enhance our reputation as the firm of choice for companies facing high-stakes communications challenges associated with M&A transactions, operational crises, government investigations and other events that represent risk to corporate reputation.”
Sloane & Company, a public affairs, financial and crisis communications firm that Mr. Sloane founded in 1998, was acquired by MDC Partners in 2010. In 2016, Mr. Sloane transitioned from the day-to-day leadership of the firm as part of the completion of the transaction. For the last 18 months, he has consulted for a number of clients and recently taught a graduate class in corporate and financial communications at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School of Communications and Journalism.
“FTI Consulting is the perfect home for me,” Mr. Sloane said. “I’ve known Mark McCall and Ed Reilly for decades and have enormous respect for the business they have built, the talent pool across the firm and, most important, the commitment and interest to advise boards of directors and the C-suite on the most pressing communications issues facing organizations today. I’m looking forward to working with Brian Kennedy and his world-class team in the Americas and throughout the FTI Consulting global network and doing what I love: great work with great colleagues.”
About FTI Consulting
FTI Consulting, Inc. is a global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organizations manage change, mitigate risk and resolve disputes: financial, legal, operational, political & regulatory, reputational and transactional. With more than 4,600 employees located in 28 countries, FTI Consulting professionals work closely with clients to anticipate, illuminate and overcome complex business challenges and make the most of opportunities. The Company generated $1.81 billion in revenues during fiscal year 2016. For more information, visit www.fticonsulting.com and connect with us on Twitter (@FTIConsulting) , Facebook and LinkedIn .
Investor Contact:
Mollie Hawkes
+1.617.747.1791
mollie.hawkes@fticonsulting.com
Media Contact:
Matthew Bashalany
+1.617.897.1545
matthew.bashalany@fticonsulting.com
Source:FTI Consulting, Inc.