WILMINGTON, N.C., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Paragon International, Inc., a leading provider of clinical trial support services, today announced it has changed its name to Paragon Global CRS. The name recognizes the variety of services currently being offered by Paragon Global CRS to its clinical trial partners around the globe.
Paragon International, Inc. opened its doors in 1995 and initially specialized in organizing educational and investigator meetings for pharmaceutical companies and CROs. "Through our growth, we found that our services have to go far beyond personnel management, meeting planning, and production," said David A. Rock III, President and Managing Director. "Today, our services are increasingly tailored to meet the logistical needs of clinical trial support. Rebranding is a way for us to signal that we can now support our clinical trial partners more broadly as they investigate and bring new drugs to the market."
According to Danielle Baxter, Director of Business Development, "Our new corporate identity better reflects who we are as a company in 2018. The organic growth that we have experienced over the past 22 years has been a direct result of the changing landscape of clinical trials and the evolving needs of our clients. We simply want them to know that as their business changes, we will continue to identify ways to help them meet their objectives."
The company began expanding its clinical trial support services in 2000, and they immediately noticed the strain that efficiency placed on their clinical trial partners. "Every pharmaceutical company and CRO must become more efficient and productive in order to compete in today's business environment. We are fully aware that humanizing participant experiences in clinical trials is a priority in order to maximize recruitment and retention. Our job is to ensure that participant satisfaction remains high," said Drew Massey, Vice President.
As part of its rebranding, Paragon will introduce a new corporate website which can be accessed at https://paragonglobalcrs.com .
About Paragon Global CRS
PARAGON Global CRS is a Wilmington, NC-based clinical research support company that specializes in producing pre-FDA clinical meetings and supporting the clinical research industry and trial participants.
Their mission is to humanize participant experiences in clinical drug trials, engaging the public and participants as partners in the clinical research process by using service-first technologies.
Paragon Global CRS has supported dozens of clinical trials and hundreds of meetings in over 40 countries, bringing their expertise in event and personnel management to the clinical research space.
Contact:
Danielle Baxter
1-910-520-6051
dbaxter@paragonglobalcrs.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/paragon-international-lnc-launches-new-brand-new-logo-changes-corporate-name-300588523.html
SOURCE Paragon Global CRS