Dallas, TX, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Associa , the industry’s largest community management company, promotes Craig Talley as the new regional sales director for the eastern region.
Mr. Talley joined Associa in 2017, supporting the Columbus and Cincinnati offices, where he led the branches to an impressive addition of 37 new accounts within his first year before transitioning to the national sales team.
In his new role with Associa, Mr. Talley will utilize his vast experience and strong business acumen to assist branches in the eastern region in realizing their maximum growth potential. He will continue to focus on the evolution, growth, and success of Associa's largest sales team.
Mr. Talley has more than 30 years of experience in business development, sales, marketing, manufacturing, operations, distribution, and quality assurance. He held senior management positions with various companies including Alcyone Inc., Go BIG Media, Verify Inc., Goodrich AeroStructures, Honeywell and Blue Shield. His executive leadership experience includes responsibility for revenue generation, proposal generation, strategic marketing, strategic planning, assessing the business landscape to identify competition, potential partnerships, acquisition targets, corporate restructuring, customer satisfaction, prospect acquisition, and P&L, reducing costs and increasing shareholder value.
“Craig has been a huge asset to our sales team and his unique approach to serving clients and customers has made him a perfect fit for this new position,” stated Sean West, Associa vice president, sales. “He has continued to excel at delivering unmatched customer satisfaction and exceeding expectations. Expanding his role and broadening his community reach was the undeniable next step for Craig and Associa.”
Mr. Talley received his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Ohio State University with a focus on Operations Research and Economics.
With more than 180 branch offices across North America, Associa delivers unsurpassed management and lifestyle services to nearly five million residents worldwide. Our 10,000+ team members lead the industry with unrivaled education, expertise and trailblazing innovation. For more than 40 years, Associa has provided solutions designed to help communities achieve their vision. To learn more, visit www.associaonline.com .
Stay Connected:
Like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/associa
Subscribe to the Blog: https://hub.associaonline.com/
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/associa
Join us on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/associa
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/f245b16a-5f1a-458a-9268-e05ee9e62b07
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/bf488d2b-db8a-409d-8989-bf0fd0c490cf
Ashley S Cantwell Associa 214-272-4107 acantwell@associaonline.com
Source: Associa