BEAVERTON, Ore., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Genesis Financial Solutions announced the appointment of Mark E. Denman as President of Genesis Credit, the private label financing business unit of Genesis Financial Solutions. The programs offered through the Genesis Credit brand allows retailers to provide customers, who are typically turned down by prime lenders, access to high quality financing solutions with flexible payment plans and attractive promotions.
As President, Mark will focus on driving Genesis Credit's long term strategic development and immediate incremental growth, while building strong relationships with current and future retail partners.
"We are excited to have someone of Mark's stature join our executive team at Genesis," said Bruce Weinstein, President and CEO, Genesis Financial Solutions. "Mark's extensive retail consumer credit expertise and proven ability to increase top line growth, aligns with our long term strategic objectives for our private label business."
Mark comes to Genesis Financial Solutions with over 20 years of leadership experience in the consumer leasing industry. Most recently, he served as Executive Vice President at AcceptanceNow (A Rent-A-Center brand). In this role, he drove a 30% revenue increase in their kiosk lease business, a 25% reduction in time to open stores, a 20% increase in store openings, and implemented the company's first virtual kiosks. Prior to his EVP role at AcceptanceNow, Mark was Divisional Vice President at both Rent-A-Center and AcceptanceNow brands as well as Operations Manager at TRS (The Rental Store) who Rent A Center acquired in 2010.
About Genesis Financial Solutions
Genesis Financial Solutions, Inc. is the leading provider of non-prime consumer financing solutions with over 1.5 million customers, 150,000 new cardholders monthly, and 1,000 team members. Genesis provides top quality financing solutions and respectful service for non-prime consumers through our merchant and direct-to-consumer credit card programs. Our programs offer consumers, who are typically turned down by a prime lender, a second chance to access financing and credit cards with simple terms, competitive rates, and excellent customer service. For more information visit Genesis' website at www.genesis-fs.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mark-e-denman-joins-genesis-financial-solutions-as-president-of-genesis-credit-300579724.html
SOURCE Genesis Financial Solutions, Inc.