LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Golden Entertainment, Inc. (Nasdaq: GDEN) (“Golden”) announced today the closing of its underwritten public offering of 7,475,000 shares of common stock at the previously announced public offering price of $28.00 per share, which consisted of 6,500,000 shares sold by certain of its shareholders and 975,000 shares sold directly by Golden pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares.
Golden did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares by the selling shareholders. The aggregate gross proceeds to Golden from the offering of shares pursuant to the underwriters’ option, before deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, were approximately $27.3 million. Golden expects to use the net proceeds from the sale of 975,000 primary shares for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, capital expenditures, opportunistic acquisitions or working capital.
J.P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley acted as joint book-running managers and representatives of the underwriters for the offering. Macquarie Capital also acted as a joint book-running manager. Union Gaming acted as co-manager for the offering.
The offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offering of these shares may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus, copies of which may be obtained by contacting: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, telephone: (866) 803-9204 and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Attn: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2nd Floor, New York, New York 10014. Electronic copies of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus are also available on the website of the SEC at http://www.sec.gov .
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the offered shares, nor shall there be any sale of such shares in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or other jurisdiction.
About Golden Entertainment, Inc.
Golden Entertainment, Inc. owns and operates gaming properties across two divisions – resort casino operations and distributed gaming. Golden operates approximately 16,000 slots, 114 table games, and 5,164 hotel rooms, and provides jobs for approximately 7,000 team members. Golden owns eight casino resorts – seven in Southern Nevada and one in Maryland. Through its distributed gaming business in Nevada and Montana, Golden Entertainment operates video gaming devices at nearly 1,000 locations and owns nearly 60 traditional taverns in Nevada. Golden Entertainment is licensed in Illinois to operate video gaming terminals.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding future events, including statements regarding the proposed public offering, that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “potential,” “seek,” “should,” “think,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions, or they may use future dates. Forward-looking statements in this press release include, without limitation, statements regarding Golden’s expectations as to the anticipated use of proceeds from the public offering. These forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and readers are therefore cautioned that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include, among other things: risks and uncertainties associated with market conditions and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Golden’s filings with the SEC, including the “Risk Factors” section of Golden’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Golden undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006463/en/
Investor Relations
JCIR
Joseph Jaffoni, Richard Land, James Leahy, 212-835-8500
gden@jcir.com
or
Media Relations
Golden Entertainment, Inc.
Howard Stutz, 702-495-4490
Director Corporate Communications
hstutz@goldenent.com
Source: Golden Entertainment, Inc.