SAN DIEGO, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Fowler College of Business at San Diego State University (SDSU) announced today that management professor, Alex DeNoble, has been recognized by the United States Association for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (USASBE) as a Justin G. Longenecker Fellow. DeNoble, who serves as the executive director of SDSU's Lavin Entrepreneurship Center , is one of only 79 Longenecker Fellows who have "made an outstanding contribution to the development, furtherance and benefit of small and medium businesses."
Founded in 1981, USASBE is a national organization whose stated mission is "advancing entrepreneurship education through bold teaching, scholarship, and practice."
"For over 30 years, Dr. DeNoble's role in building outstanding academic programs, his research and his unwavering advocacy has led to his expertise in the field of entrepreneurship education," said Patrick Snyder, executive director for USASBE. "Dr. DeNoble's recognition as a Longenecker Fellow serves as the culmination of the respect and admiration he has earned from his industry peers."
"I am honored to be recognized as a Longenecker Fellow," said DeNoble. "It is truly humbling to join the ranks of the other Fellows whose work I've long admired as some of the very best entrepreneurship academic leaders in the world."
DeNoble, who has served on the faculty at SDSU since 1983, has been the recipient of numerous teaching and research awards and is the founder of the California Entrepreneurship Educator's Conference which is held annually at SDSU.
About the Fowler College of Business
With over 5,000 students, the Fowler College of Business at San Diego State University is one of the largest business schools in the U.S. For over 60 years, the college has produced some of the most successful and influential business leaders in the world. For more information, visit business.sdsu.edu .
About San Diego State University
Founded in 1897, San Diego State University is a major public research institution that provides transformative experiences, both inside and outside of the classroom, for its more than 36,000 students. The university offers bachelor's degrees in 95 areas, master's degrees in 78 areas and doctorates in 22 areas. Students participate in research, international experiences, sustainability and entrepreneurship initiatives, internships and mentoring, and a broad range of student life and leadership opportunities. The university's rich campus life features opportunities for students to participate in, and engage with, the creative and performing arts, a Division I athletics program and the vibrant cultural life of the San Diego region. For more information, visit www.sdsu.edu .
Contact: Suzanne Finch
Public Affairs Officer
Fowler College of Business
(619) 594-0206
sfinch@mail.sdsu.edu
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sdsus-alex-denoble-honored-with-prestigious-longenecker-fellowship-300581214.html
SOURCE The Fowler College of Business at San Diego State University