WASHINGTON, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global executive search firm Stanton Chase announced today the opening of a new office in Washington, D.C., providing additional opportunities to serve clients more effectively throughout the mid-Atlantic region.
Jeff Perkins, a veteran executive search professional, has been appointed managing director of the new Stanton Chase Washington, D.C. office. Perkins brings vast experience in leadership consulting and executive development as CEO of Huntbridge. Huntbridge, Inc. is an innovative leadership consulting firm that provides hand-crafted solutions for talent leaders. Perkins will work closely with Managing Director Lyn Cason in the neighboring Baltimore office.
The office is located at 840 First Street NW, Third Floor, Washington, DC, 20002.
International Chairman Mickey Matthews remarked, "We're delighted to expand our reach into this important market, and we're glad to bring Jeff and his deep client relationships into the fold of Stanton Chase where we can serve their senior executive search requirements."
Cason, Managing Director and Co-Chair of the Diversity practice and Global Sector Leader for Advertising, Media and Publishing, added: "We're thrilled to be bringing Jeff on board. We've been watching his practice grow and diversify in the last few years in the D.C. area, and we're glad to be working together on our media, nonprofit, life sciences, and education practices."
Perkins said, "I am excited about joining the Stanton Chase team, and I am pleased to be extending the firm's reach by adding an office in our nation's capital to over 70 other offices worldwide. I look forward to bringing the world-class search capability of Stanton Chase to our existing and future valuable clients."
In addition to his role as managing director, he will focus on supporting client initiatives towards achieving further market penetration in the technology, media, non-profit, association, and government affairs communities.
For more information about Stanton Chase, visit: stantonchase.com
For more information about Jeff Perkins, visit: https://www.stantonchase.com/consultant/jeff-perkins/
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stanton-chase-continues-expansion-with-new-washington-dc-office-300578623.html
SOURCE Stanton Chase