NEW YORK, WeissLaw LLP is investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law by the Board of Directors of Blackhawk Network Holdings Inc. ("HAWK" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: HAWK) in connection with the proposed acquisition of the Company by private equity firms Silver Lake and P2 Capital Partners. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive $45.25 in cash for each HAWK share they own.
WeissLaw is investigating whether HAWK's Board acted to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. Notably, at least one analyst set a target price of $51.00 per share, or approximately $6.00 above the offer price. Additionally, HAWK shares traded for $46.70, or $1.45 above the offer price, as recently as July of 2017.
Given these facts, WeissLaw is investigating whether HAWK's Board acted in the best interests of HAWK's public shareholders to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. If you own HAWK shares and would like more information about your rights or our investigation, or if you have information to share with us, please contact Joshua Rubin by telephone at (888) 593-4771 or by email at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com .
WeissLaw LLP has litigated hundreds of stockholder class and derivative actions for violations of corporate and fiduciary duties. We have recovered over a billion dollars for defrauded clients and obtained important corporate governance relief in many of these cases. If you have information or would like legal advice concerning possible corporate wrongdoing (including insider trading, waste of corporate assets, accounting fraud, or materially misleading information), consumer fraud (including false advertising, defective products, or other deceptive business practices), or anti-trust violations, please email us at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com or fill out the form on our website, http://www.weisslawllp.com/blackhawk-network-holdings-inc/
 : releases/weisslaw-llp-investigates-blackhawk-network-holdings-inc-acquisition-300584924.html
SOURCE WeissLaw LLP