NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- David Blumenstein , President and CEO of The Segal Group, announced that effective January 1, 2018 the firm has acquired Touchstone Consulting Group, an employee benefits consulting firm based in Worcester, MA.
Touchstone Consulting provides retirement, health and welfare and related employee benefit consulting services. They have a deep experience working with global corporations and Fortune 500 companies. They are now part of Sibson Consulting , the division of The Segal Group that provides human resources and benefits consulting to corporations, higher education institutions and nonprofit organizations.
“Touchstone has a strong reputation for its focus on service, offering benefits consulting expertise and providing high-quality solutions,” said Mr. Blumenstein. “Our strengths are complementary and this transaction is an excellent opportunity to augment our talent and resources.”
“With this transaction, our clients are well-served by the strength of Segal’s capabilities,” added David Peck , Touchstone’s president, who joins Sibson as Vice President and Retirement Consultant. “The depth and breadth of The Segal Group’s resources, including access to tools and intellectual capital, will allow us to strengthen the services we offer to those organizations we have been serving.”
Former clients of Touchstone will now receive Sibson’s market-leading educational materials on compliance and benefits, as well as guidance to help them navigate the maze of federal, laws and regulations related to benefit plans.
Five employees from Touchstone have joined Sibson Consulting. They will continue to be based in Worcester.
The Segal Group ( www.segalgroup.net ) is a private, employee-owned consulting firm headquartered in New York and with more than 1,000 employees throughout the U.S. and Canada. Members of The Segal Group include Segal Consulting, Sibson Consulting, Segal Select Insurance Services, Inc., and Segal Marco Advisors.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005797/en/
The Segal Group
Todd Kohlhepp, 212-251-5087
M 347-957-1499
Public Affairs Specialist, Media
tkohlhepp@segalco.com
Source: The Segal Group