SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- McKesson Corporation (NYSE:MCK) will release financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017 on Thursday, February 1, 2018, prior to the opening of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The company has scheduled a conference call for 8:00 AM Eastern Time (5:00 AM Pacific Time), during which John Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer, and Britt Vitalone, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will review these results.
The dial-in number for individuals wishing to participate on the call is 323-794-2093. Craig Mercer, senior vice president, Investor Relations is the leader of the call and the password is ‘McKesson’. The conference call will also be available live and archived on the company’s Investor Relations website at http://investor.mckesson.com .
About McKesson Corporation
McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 5 th on the FORTUNE 500, is a global leader in healthcare supply chain management solutions, retail pharmacy, community oncology and specialty care, and healthcare information technology. McKesson partners with pharmaceutical manufacturers, providers, pharmacies, governments and other organizations in healthcare to help provide the right medicines, medical products and healthcare services to the right patients at the right time, safely and cost-effectively. United by our ICARE shared principles, our employees work every day to innovate and deliver opportunities that make our customers and partners more successful — all for the better health of patients. McKesson has been named the “ Most Admired Company ” in the healthcare wholesaler category by FORTUNE, a “ Best Place to Work ” by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, and a top military-friendly company by Military Friendly. For more information, visit www.mckesson.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006351/en/
McKesson Corporation
Investors and Financial Media:
Craig Mercer, 415-983-8391
Craig.Mercer@mckesson.com
Source: McKesson Corporation