Lakewood, Washington, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nathan and Lisa Hagman were in the U.S. Navy, stationed overseas when they first encountered head lice. "My husband and I, our two children and the nanny all had lice," Lisa said. "My husband and I were both in the medical field, and our nanny was a pediatric nurse. We felt like we were well equipped to handle a simple case of head lice. Wow, were we wrong."
The couple spent five months and more than $1,000 before they were lice-free.
Head lice and nits infamously cause stress, disgust, and embarrassment for millions of parents whose kids get infested each year. Thanks to the Hagmans, parents in Lakewood and surrounding areas no longer have to worry about treating the bugs themselves thanks to the opening of a new head lice treatment center, Lice Clinics of America, operated by Lice Girls.
Lice Clinics of America – Lakewood is the second clinic opened by the Hagmans in the Puget Sound, joining their Kitsap location, also owned and operated as Lice Girls ( http://www.liceclinicspugetsound.com ). The clinic provides screening, diagnosis and treatment options for people infested with head lice. The clinic is staffed by certified operators of the AirAllé device, an FDA-cleared medical device that kills head lice and lice eggs (nits) using controlled heated air.
A few years after their first encounter with head lice, Lisa was preparing to have surgery, and her children were going to stay with a family of 11 until they were struck with another case of head lice. "I could not bring my kids to a home of nine children with head lice," Lisa said. "I had heard about a business you could go to and get rid of head lice in one day, guaranteed, so there was no other choice for me. As it turns out, not only were we lice-free in one day, we spent hundreds of dollars less than we did when we self-treated at home."
A business was born. "I immediately felt a passion for the AirAllé treatment and started our first clinic," Lisa said. It's been a great experience so far. "We have treated children who have struggled with head lice for years. The pure sense of pride and happiness you get knowing you made such a difference in a child's life is hard to describe!"
The Lakewood clinic is located at 3520 96th Street, Suite 110, and is open seven days per week, by appointment. AirAllé treatments take a little more than an hour and come with a 30-day guarantee when all family members are treated or screened for head lice.
With more than 300 clinics in 34 countries, Lice Clinics of America ( www.LiceClinicsOfAmerica.com ) is the largest network of professional head-lice-treatment centers in the world. Lice Clinics of America and AirAllé ( www.airalle.com ) are brands owned by Larada Sciences, Inc., which is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/022d68e9-66c9-471c-9d7f-8d15821c008a
Lisa Hagman Lice Clinics of America 1-855-542-3447 peatmanbill@gmail.com
Source:Lice Clinicsof America