CAMBRIDGE, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Syros Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: SYRS), a biopharmaceutical company pioneering the development of medicines to control the expression of genes, today announced that it is offering to sell, subject to market and other conditions, $40.0 million of its common stock in an underwritten public offering. Syros also intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to $6.0 million of its common stock at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The proceeds of the offering are expected to be used to fund the company’s research and clinical development programs and other corporate purposes. The offering is subject to market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the offering may be completed or as to the actual size or terms of the offering.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Cowen and Company, LLC and Piper Jaffray & Co. are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. JMP Securities LLC is acting as lead manager.
The shares are being offered by Syros pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on July 20, 2017 and declared effective by the SEC on July 31, 2017. The offering will be made only by means of the prospectus and prospectus supplement that form a part of the registration statement. A preliminary prospectus supplement relating to, and describing the terms of, the offering will be filed with the SEC and will be available on the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov .
Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus relating to this offering can be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, New York 11717, telephone: 866-803-9204; Cowen and Company, LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, Attention: Prospectus Department, or by telephone at (631) 274-2806; or Piper Jaffray & Co., Attention: Prospectus Department, 800 Nicollet Mall, J12S03, Minneapolis, MN 55402, or by telephone at 800-747-3924. The final terms of the offering will be disclosed in a final prospectus supplement to be filed with the SEC.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Syros Pharmaceuticals
Syros is pioneering the understanding of the non-coding region of the genome to advance a new wave of medicines that control expression of genes. Syros has built a proprietary platform that is designed to systematically and efficiently analyze this unexploited region of DNA in human disease tissue to identify and drug novel targets linked to genomically defined patient populations. Because gene expression is fundamental to the function of all cells, Syros’ gene control platform has broad potential to create medicines that achieve profound and durable benefit across a range of diseases. Syros is currently focused on cancer and monogenic diseases and is advancing a growing pipeline of gene control medicines. Syros’ lead drug candidates are SY-1425, a selective RARα agonist in a Phase 2 clinical trial for genomically defined subsets of patients with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome, and SY-1365, a selective CDK7 inhibitor in a Phase 1 clinical trial for patients with advanced solid tumors. Led by a team with deep experience in drug discovery, development and commercialization, Syros is located in Cambridge, Mass.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as those, among others, relating to Syros’ plans to consummate its proposed offering and the intended use of proceeds therefrom. The words ‘‘anticipate,’’ ‘‘believe,’’ ‘‘continue,’’ ‘‘could,’’ ‘‘estimate,’’ ‘‘expect,’’ ‘‘intend,’’ ‘‘may,’’ ‘‘plan,’’ ‘‘potential,’’ ‘‘predict,’’ ‘‘project,’’ ‘‘target,’’ ‘‘should,’’ ‘‘would,’’ and similar expressions are intended to identify , although not all contain these identifying words. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in these as a result of various important factors, including include, without limitation, risks and uncertainties related to whether or not Syros will be able to raise capital through the sale of shares of common stock, the final terms of the proposed offering, market and other conditions, the satisfaction of customary closing conditions related to the proposed offering and the impact of general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally. There can be no assurance that Syros will be able to complete the proposed offering on the anticipated terms, or at all. Additional risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed offering, Syros and its business can be found under the caption “Risk Factors” in Syros’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, Syros’ preliminary prospectus supplement to be filed with the SEC on January 30, 2018; and risks described in other filings that Syros makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. Any contained in this press release speak only as of the date hereof, and Syros expressly disclaims any obligation to update any , whether because of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006345/en/
Media Contact:
Syros Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Naomi Aoki, 617-283-4298
naoki@syros.com
or
Investor Contact:
Stern Investor Relations, Inc.
Hannah Deresiewicz, 212-362-1200
hannahd@sternir.com
Source: Syros Pharmaceuticals