BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Audax Private Equity (“Audax”) announced that it has agreed to acquire Corsearch, a division of Wolters Kluwer N.V. (AMS: WKL). Corsearch, headquartered in New York, NY, is a leading data-driven trademark and domain establishment and protection business. Corsearch has additional offices in Dallas, California, Brussels, London, Luxembourg, and Paris. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Corsearch provides trademark and domain management services to corporate legal departments and law firms through their brand establishment, brand protection, and domain management business lines.
Geoffrey S. Rehnert , Co-Chief Executive Officer, Audax Group, said, “Corsearch is a leader in the brand protection and establishment industry. We look forward to working with Tobias Hartman and the Corsearch team to build a leading platform through organic growth and add-on acquisitions.”
Tobias Hartman , CEO of Corsearch, said, “Corsearch is excited to be partnering with Audax for our next chapter of growth. Audax’ acquisition, operational, and international experience will be a valued resource to us in the next stage of our growth.”
Evercore Partners served as financial advisor to Corsearch. Kirkland & Ellis LLP served as counsel to Audax.
ABOUT AUDAX PRIVATE EQUITY
Since its founding in 1999, Audax Private Equity has been focused on building leading middle market companies. Audax has invested $4.5 billion in 112 platform and 639 add-on companies. Through its disciplined Buy & Build approach, Audax seeks to help platform companies execute add-on acquisitions that fuel revenue growth, optimize operations, and significantly increase equity value. Audax Private Equity is an integral part of Audax Group, an alternative asset management firm specializing in investments in middle market companies. With offices in Boston, New York, and San Francisco, Audax Group has over $11.5 billion in assets under management across its Private Equity, Mezzanine, and Senior Debt businesses. For more information, visit the Audax Group website, www.audaxgroup.com .
ABOUT CORSEARCH
Corsearch is the premier provider of clearance and protection solutions for trademark and brand professionals. Its high-quality, intuitive tools and unparalleled expertise enable professionals to effectively manage their trademark screening, search review, watching, and domain management processes. With highly trained researchers, an expansive global content set and customer-designed technology tools like the Corsearch platform, Corsearch empowers its customers with the ability to easily, quickly and flexibly monitor and protect their brands in an increasingly complex business environment.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005742/en/
Audax Group
Geoffrey S. Rehnert, 617-859-1503
Co-Chief Executive Officer
or
Corsearch
Brett Amdur, 610-203-1000
Vice President of Product Management & Marketing
Source: Audax Private Equity