SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- American River Bank and American River Bankshares (NASDAQ-GS:AMRB) today announced that Loren Hunter, who has served American River Bank as Executive Vice President & Chief Credit Officer since 2014, is stepping down from his position.
“We appreciate Loren’s service," said David E. Ritchie, Jr., President & Chief Executive Officer for American River Bank. “During his tenure, lending and asset quality remained strong. This positions us well for growth and an increase in value for our stakeholders.”
About American River Bankshares
American River Bankshares (NASDAQ-GS:AMRB) is the parent company of American River Bank, a regional bank serving Northern California since 1983. We give business owners more REACH by offering financial expertise and exceptional service to complement a full suite of banking products and services. Our honest approach, commitment to community and focus on profitability is intended to lead our clients to greater success. For more information, call (916) 544-0545 or visit AmericanRiverBank.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained herein are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the results in these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, among other matters, changes in interest rates, economic conditions, governmental regulation and legislation, credit quality, and competition affecting the Company’s businesses generally; the risk of natural disasters and future catastrophic events including terrorist related incidents; and other factors discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, and in subsequent reports filed on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any of these forward-looking statements, whether to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Investor Contact:
Mitchell A. Derenzo
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
American River Bankshares
916-231-6723
Media Contact:
Erica Dias
Vice President, Marketing & Community Engagement
American River Bankshares
916-231-6717
Source:American River Bankshares