PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Blank Rome LLP is pleased to announce that Andrew K. Fletcher has joined the Firm as a Partner in the Commercial Litigation group in the Pittsburgh office. At Blank Rome, Mr. Fletcher will serve as a litigator for and counselor to clients, advising them on their most complex business and intellectual property disputes. He joins Blank Rome from Pepper Hamilton LLP where he led the litigation practice in the firm’s Pittsburgh office and served as vice chair of the firm’s International and Domestic Arbitration practice group.
“We are very excited to welcome Andy to Blank Rome,” said Alan J. Hoffman , the Firm’s Chairman and Managing Partner. “Beyond his significant trial experience, Andy’s understanding of the unique issues that oil and gas companies face in Pennsylvania, particularly contract and intellectual property disputes relating to drilling and other aspects of the industry, will complement our Energy Industry team. In addition, Andy’s experience as lead counsel in international and U.S. arbitrations will be a tremendous value-add to clients across a number of our practices.”
As lead trial counsel, Mr. Fletcher has tried to verdict jury and non-jury cases before numerous federal and state courts, as well as in international and domestic arbitrations. Mr. Fletcher’s business litigation experience spans breach of contract; patent and trade secrets disputes; breach of fiduciary duty and corporate governance matters; tortious interference and fraud matters; and breach of warranty and product liability issues.
“Our litigators help clients reach resolutions on contractual disputes and provide preventative counsel that focuses on minimizing the business impact of a potential dispute,” said James J. Barnes , Partner in Blank Rome's Corporate, M&A, and Securities group and Administrative Partner of the Firm's Pittsburgh office. “With more than 25 years of experience, Andy further bolsters our litigation team, both nationally and in Pittsburgh. We opened our Pittsburgh office in 2015 to meet the growing demand for services from our clients with significant interests in Western Pennsylvania, and have experienced steady and strategic growth. We are confident that Andy will help us continue our momentum in the market.”
In addition to providing counsel on complex business disputes, Mr. Fletcher has extensive experience in oil and gas industry matters, providing counsel to an industry that remains one of Pittsburgh’s most significant economic drivers. In this field, Mr. Fletcher has served as lead counsel on matters including disputes regarding drilling contracts and supply agreements, patent infringement claims related to water treatment processes and gas-to-liquids technology, and disputes relating to the ownership of oil, gas, and mineral rights. He has also advised Pennsylvania state legislators contemplating legislation relating to the calculation of royalties paid on gas leases.
“I’m excited to offer my clients the support of a national law firm that is committed to the Pittsburgh market,” said Mr. Fletcher. “The vitality in Pittsburgh right now is incredible. The oil and gas industry is making legacy investments in the region. Pittsburgh’s historic leadership in manufacturing continues to generate thousands of jobs and create new opportunities for growth. And the innovation we’re seeing relating to artificial intelligence and other computer-driven technologies is making Pittsburgh an exciting destination for both innovative businesses and young people alike. These same technological changes will drive innovation in how law firms deliver services to their clients. It’s an exciting time for Pittsburgh, and the Firm’s commitment to this region, including its historical strengths and future opportunities, is very attractive to me and to the clients I serve.”
In line with Blank Rome’s significant commitment to pro bono and community investment, Mr. Fletcher is actively engaged with the Pittsburgh community on both a personal and professional basis. Mr. Fletcher serves as chancellor to the Anglican Diocese of Pittsburgh, where he provides pro bono legal counsel. Further, Mr. Fletcher serves as board president for the Pittsburgh Recovery Center, an advocacy organization committed to education and treatment center placement for those seeking recovery from addiction. An avid and lifelong rower, Mr. Fletcher also serves as board secretary for the University of Virginia Rowing Association. Through Blank Rome’s pro bono program, Mr. Fletcher will continue to make a substantive impact in the local community and beyond.
Mr. Fletcher earned his J.D. from the University of Virginia, and his B.A. from Yale University.
About Blank Rome LLP
Blank Rome is an Am Law 100 firm with 13 offices and more than 600 attorneys and principals who provide comprehensive legal and advocacy services to clients operating in the United States and around the world. Our professionals have built a reputation for their leading knowledge and experience across a spectrum of industries, and are recognized for their commitment to pro bono work in their communities. Since our inception in 1946, Blank Rome’s culture has been dedicated to providing top-level service to all of our clients, and has been rooted in the strength of our diversity and inclusion initiatives. For more information, please visit blankrome.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006284/en/
Blank Rome LLP
Kate Tavella, 215.988.6988
tavella@blankrome.com
Source: Blank Rome LLP