WAUWATOSA, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Corix Utility Services announced today it will now operate under the new name Tribus Services.
The name Tribus adds “bus”, referring to “electrical connection” or “common connection”, to the Latin root “Tri”, expressing the idea of our three businesses — deployment, project management and consulting — coming together.
The name change follows a decision from the Corix Group of Companies to restructure its United States and Canadian Utility Services divisions so they can operate outside a utility operations and governance structure. Tribus Services will remain part of the Corix Group, whose primary owner is the British Columbia Investment Management Corporation (bcIMC).
Kevin Meagher, who led Corix Utility Services as Senior Vice President, has been promoted to President and CEO for Tribus Services.
“The change will allow us to be more competitive and expand our business opportunities to serve an increasingly global base,” said Kevin Meagher, Tribus Services President and CEO. “Our vision and focus has been refined to reflect the needs of our customers, and our new name will help us communicate our new strategy.”
A new website has been established for Tribus Services at TribusServices.com .
Quick Facts
Corix Utility Services will now operate as Tribus Services Kevin Meagher will lead Tribus Services as President and CEO Tribus Services will be headquartered in Wauwatosa, WI Visit Tribus Services at DistribuTECH, Booth 916, from January 23-25, 2018
About Tribus Services
With over 20 years’ experience, Tribus Services, a Corix Company, provides end-to-end smart metering and utility services for gas, water, and electric utilities. Tribus Services has completed more than 25 million Smart Meter/Advanced Meter Infrastructure (AMI)/Automated Meter Reading (AMR) implementations and meter replacements, deploying all types of meter models and smart meter technology. Tribus Services primary owner is the British Columbia Investment Management Corporation (bcIMC). For more information, visit TribusServices.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005492/en/
Tribus Services, a Corix Company
Kaitlin Thomas, Toll-free: 1-877-678-3842
Public.Relations@TribusServices.com
Source: Tribus Services