CLEARWATER, Fla., Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Tech Data (Nasdaq: TECD) today announced that it has been named one of the "World's Most Admired Companies" by FORTUNE magazine for the ninth consecutive year. Tech Data ranked second overall in the Wholesalers: Electronics and Office Equipment category.
"The past year has been exciting and transformational for Tech Data," said Bob Dutkowsky, chairman and chief executive officer at Tech Data. "Our more than 14,000 colleagues around the world have worked together to establish a strong foundation for becoming the IT distributor of the future—one with the global reach and end-to-end capabilities necessary to connect the world with the power of technology. To be honored as one of the 'World's Most Admired' companies for the ninth straight year, especially during a period of such rapid evolution in technology, reflects the consistent dedication of our talented team and their unwavering commitment to the success of our customers, vendors, shareholders and each other."
To develop the "World's Most Admired" list, FORTUNE and the Korn Ferry Hay Group surveyed executives, directors and analysts to rate enterprises in 52 industries on nine criteria—as varied as investment value to people management. Notably, Tech Data earned the top score in its industry on Global Competitiveness, Social Responsibility and Use of Corporate Assets. To be listed, a company's score must rank in the top half of its industry survey. More than 3,900 leaders from 680 companies in 29 countries were surveyed.
In addition to being one of FORTUNE's Most Admired Companies, Tech Data is currently ranked No. 107 on the FORTUNE 500 and No. 412 on the FORTUNE Global 500. The 2018 list of FORTUNE's World's Most Admired Companies is available online at http://fortune.com/worlds-most-admired-companies/ .
Click to tweet : .@Tech_Data celebrates 9 th straight year on @FortuneMagazine 's World's Most Admired list; http://ow.ly/PaK330hS3zi #MostAdmired
About Tech Data
Tech Data connects the world with the power of technology. Our end-to-end portfolio of products, services and solutions, highly specialized skills, and expertise in next-generation technologies enable channel partners to bring to market the products and solutions the world needs to connect, grow and advance. Tech Data is ranked No. 107 on the Fortune 500 ® and has been named one of Fortune's World's Most Admired Companies for nine straight years. To find out more, visit www.techdata.com or follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , and Facebook .
Media Contact
Jennifer Harmes
Public Relations Manager
Tech Data
727.599.2654
jennifer.harmes@techdata.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tech-data-named-one-of-fortunes-worlds-most-admired-companies-for-ninth-straight-year-300585218.html
SOURCE Tech Data