Wilver’s Industrial, M&A and Financial Background to Aid Evoqua’s Growth Plans
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Evoqua Water Technologies (NYSE: AQUA) today announced Peter M. Wilver, former senior executive at Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (NYSE: TMO), has joined its Board as an independent director and chair of the Company’s Audit Committee.
Wilver brings a wealth of industrial products and M&A experience along with strong financial acumen to Evoqua’s Board. He previously served 11 years as Chief Financial Officer of Thermo Fisher Scientific, a publicly traded life sciences technology company, during a period of significant profitable growth for the company. Most recently, he served as Thermo Fisher’s Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Earlier in his career, Wilver held financial management roles at industrial companies including GE, Honeywell and Grimes Aerospace.
Wilver is also a member of the Board of Directors of CIRCOR International, Inc. (NYSE: CIR), an industrial manufacturer serving the oil and gas, petrochemical, power generation and aviation markets and Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC), a healthcare services company operating acute care hospitals and outpatient centers and providing health management solutions. He also serves on the Advisory Board of Letter One Health, an investment firm focused on acquisition opportunities that occupy a critical and strategic role in the healthcare value chain.
“Throughout his career, Pete has helped lead major profitable growth efforts – he was a key member of the team that built Thermo Fisher Scientific from $3 billion to $18 billion in revenue – and he has completed and integrated more than $35 billion in acquisitions throughout his career,” said Ron Keating, Evoqua Chief Executive Officer. “Pete has established an impressive track record of strategic, financial and commercial accomplishments and has proven to be a successful and trusted leader. His wealth of experience will be invaluable to the Audit Committee and to Evoqua Water Technologies as a whole.”
“Having recently completed its successful IPO, it is an exciting time to join the Evoqua Board and be a part of this growth company,” said Wilver. “I look forward to being a part of a company at the leading edge of sustainability and that works with more than 38,000 customers across the globe to Transform Water and Enrich Lives.”
Evoqua Water Technologies
Evoqua Water Technologies (NYSE: AQUA) is a leading provider of mission critical water treatment solutions, offering services, systems and technologies to support its customers’ full water lifecycle needs. Evoqua Water Technologies has worked to protect water, the environment and its employees for more than 100 years, earning a reputation for quality, safety and reliability around the world. Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Evoqua operates 160 locations in eight countries and, with over 200,000 installations and 87 service branches, holds leading positions in the North American industrial, commercial and municipal water treatment markets, serving more than 38,000 customers worldwide. Visit www.evoqua.com
Forward Looking Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All of these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, assumptions and estimates. While we believe these expectations, assumptions and estimates are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These and other important factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, or could affect our share price. Additionally, this press release speaks only as of its date. We undertake no obligation to update or revise, or to publicly announce any update or revision to, any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company’s views as of any date subsequent to January 9, 2018.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006600/en/
Evoqua Water Technologies
Media:
Kevin G. Lowery, 724-772-1527 (office)
724-719-1475 (mobile)
kevin.lowery@evoqua.com
or
Investors:
Dan Brailer, 724-720-1605 (office)
412-977-2605 (mobile)
dan.brailer@evoqua.com
Source: Evoqua Water Technologies