LAS VEGAS, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Scientific Games Corporation (NASDAQ: SGMS) ("Scientific Games" or "the Company") today completed the acquisition of Tech Art, the gaming industry's leading supplier of hole-card readers for blackjack.
First announced in October, the acquisition of Tech Art will bring with it their innovative MAXTime速 4H product, a combination of a blackjack hole-card reader and a chip tray, as well as the proprietary table games Super Fun 21速 and Bet the Bust. The MAXTime速 4H product specifically will help casinos across the world increase play speed and enhance the security of blackjack games.
Scientific Games' Group Chief Executive, Gaming Derik Mooberry said, "We are excited to welcome Tech Art into the Scientific Games family. This acquisition is yet another example of our continued investment in solutions that help the Company better partner with our casino customers and offer the broadest portfolio of innovative products in the industry."
About Scientific Games
Scientific Games Corporation (NASDAQ: SGMS ) is the global leader in technology-based gaming systems, table games, table products and instant games, and a leader in products, services and content for gaming, lottery and interactive gaming markets. Scientific Games delivers what customers and players value most: trusted security, creative content, operating efficiencies and innovative technology. Today, we offer customers a fully integrated portfolio of technology platforms, robust systems, engaging content and unrivaled professional services. For more information, please visit www.scientificgames.com
About Tech Art
Tech Art, formed in 1989, is the preeminent provider of blackjack hole-card readers around the world. The company has a dominate market share in a field that they created with the invention of the MAXTime速 device. This device provides ironclad game security when dealing blackjack and is in use on over 11,000 tables worldwide. For any further information please contact Tech Art at http://www.techartinc.com/
Company Contacts
Investor Relations:
Scientific Games: Michael Quartieri +1 702-532-7658
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Media Relations:
Scientific Games: Susan Cartwright +1 702-532-7981
Vice President, Corporate Communications
susan.cartwright@scientificgames.com
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, Scientific Games makes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "will," "may," and "should." These statements are based upon management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates and are not guarantees of timing, future results or performance. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in these statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties and other factors, including those factors described in our filings with the SEC, including the Company's current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its latest annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 3, 2017 (including under the headings "Forward Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors"). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except for Scientific Games' ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, Scientific Games undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/scientific-games-finalizes-acquisition-of-tech-art-300586841.html
SOURCE Scientific Games Corporation