Deal broadens Emerson’s cold chain technology portfolio
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Emerson (NYSE: EMR) today announced it has completed the purchase of Cooper-Atkins, a leading manufacturer of temperature management and environmental measurement devices and wireless monitoring solutions for foodservice, healthcare and industrial markets.
Cooper-Atkins is a strong complement to Emerson’s global cold chain business, which includes the ProAct™ Services portfolio for supermarkets and the Cargo Solutions business that provides real-time perishable cargo tracking and monitoring services.
Headquartered in Middlefield, Conn., Cooper-Atkins has approximately 150 employees. Click here to view the original acquisition announcement and accompanying presentation or go to Emerson.com/financial .
About Emerson
Emerson (NYSE: EMR), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), is a global technology and engineering company providing innovative solutions for customers in industrial, commercial, and residential markets. Our Emerson Automation Solutions business helps process, hybrid, and discrete manufacturers maximize production, protect personnel and the environment while optimizing their energy and operating costs. Our Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions business helps ensure human comfort and health, protect food quality and safety, advance energy efficiency, and create sustainable infrastructure. For more information visit Emerson.com .
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this press release that are not strictly historical may be “forward-looking” statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, protection of intellectual property, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in Emerson’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005271/en/
Investor Contact:
Emerson
Tim Reeves, 314-553-2197
or
Media Contact:
For Emerson
Dave Baldridge, 314-982-7782
Source: Emerson