0 COMMENTS Good morning. The world’s global elite touch down in the Swiss town of Davos this week for the World Economic Forum’s annual summit. Among the politicians, bankers and academics, there is a smattering of chief marketing officers on the official participant list , as CNBC reports. The topic of this year’s meeting, “creating a shared future in a fractured world,” is a subject many marketers have been grappling with as they determine how their brands can be a force for positive change.
You Won’t Fool the Children of the Data Revolution It’s difficult to imagine Don Draper poring over a spreadsheet. Creatives, such as BBH founder John Hegarty, have long been skeptical of overrelying on data at the expense of craft. Yet clients want more of it and agencies are having to adapt to their demands. Make time today for this detailed WSJ dive into how Publicis Groupe has looked to unite the old guard with the new data and analytics experts as clients pressure the firm to embrace technological change. It’s not been without its challenges. Creative staff have bristled at digital assignments they see as inferior and uninspiring, while digital talent have chafed over TV campaigns they consider retrograde. As you’ll remember, Publicis is trying to digitally transform itself with “Marcel,” the project to build a database that can comb data on its nearly 80,000 employees to pick the best teams for projects and pitches. But if history’s anything to go by, smashing together teams of different experts and personalities from the various advertising camps won’t always be a seamless process.
Put Your Trust in Me Facebook’s answers to fixing itself in 2018 seem to almost lie within its algorithm, so far. On Friday, Facebook announced yet more changes to the news feed as it looks to rid the platform of misinformation. The social network is surveying a percentage of users on which news sources they recognize and trust and will use those results to inform its news feed rankings. What will that mean for smaller publishers, already battling with a decline in organic reach? And how will that impact Facebook’s work to seed content in the feed that sits outside of people’s individual filter bubbles? It’ll be difficult to answer those questions as Facebook says it won’t reveal individual publishers’ trustworthy scores and that they will form just one signal in its ranking. What the changes will emphasize is the importance of brand, which might see some publishers investing in outreach to remind their readers they provide a trusted source of information.
—It’s Just a Little Trust—
Well this is timely. PR firm Edelman has released its annual Trust Barometer study. As Reuters reports, trust levels in the government, media, business and NGOs in the U.S. declined more precipitously in the past year than after the global financial crash in 2008, driven by a lack of faith in government. Globally, trust in “journalism” rose to its highest level in more than five years, but a decline in faith in search engines and social media platforms led to “media” being the least-trusted of the four institutions looked at in Edelman’s study. The lack of confidence in media is also impacting trust in companies and brands more generally. “Misinformation has become the seminal issue of our day,” according to the report, and it’s a topic marketers can’t ignore.
It Tastes Just Like (Diet Feisty) Cherry Cola Earlier this month, Diet Coke introduced four new flavors and revamped packaging for the original brand in the hope of turning around a sales slump. But WSJ reports that the early verdict from consumers has been mixed. One social media analysis, from analytics firm Networked Insights, found 89% of the mentions of the new drinks were positive. Yet an analysis of 15,000 social media posts from Bernstein’s Ali Dibadj showed a largely neutral stance toward the shake-up that skewed negative. Part of the problem might be that the funky new flavors—Zesty Blood Orange, Twisted Mango, Ginger Lime and Feisty Cherry—are designed to turn the heads of younger drinkers but still don’t address a growing consumer aversion to artificial sweeteners. For its part, Coca-Cola said it spoke to 10,000 people across the U.S. and tested more than 30 flavor combos before deciding on the final lineup. The company has other products that don’t include artificial sweeteners, but Bernstein’s Mr. Dibadj doesn’t seem to hold out much hope for the new Diet Coke flavors: “Most new products in beverages-land are a flop.”
I Took Her to a Supermarket, I Don’t Know Why But I Had to Start It Somewhere If the launch of Amazon’s checkout-free store of the future sounds familiar, that’s because there was a ton of press around its first beta test to employees a little over a year ago. The company was set to open the cashless Amazon Go store to the public early last year, but that was delayed while it ironed out some kinks. Now it’s go, go, Go (in one store in the ground floor of Amazon’s HQ in Seattle, at least)! Shoppers enter through a turnstile by scanning a smartphone app where they’re greeted with ready-to-eat lunch items and a selection of groceries, Reuters reports. Cameras and weight sensors can determine whether an item has been taken off the shelf, and it’s charged to the shopper’s account as they exit. There are no long lines to deter shoppers and not having checkouts frees up space for promotional efforts like food-tasting. It’s early days, but Go could signal yet another Amazon disruption that traditional retailers rush to match.
Best of the rest Procter & Gamble’s Head & Shoulders brand has signed U.S. Olympic freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy as its newest brand ambassador. He stars in a television spot, where he holds the rainbow flag. [ New Now Next ]
Facebook is reportedly set to appoint Eurosport Chief Executive Peter Hutton to lead a drive to acquire sports broadcasting rights. [ The Guardian ]
Ross Levinsohn, the publisher and chief executive of Los Angeles Times, has voluntarily agreed to take an unpaid leave of absence while parent company Tronc investigates allegations of workplace misconduct at his prior places of employment. The same day, newsroom employees at the Times voted to unionize. [ WSJ ]
Coca-Cola wants to collect and recycle the equivalent of 100% of packaging it produces by 2030. [ WSJ ]
A Q&A with Publicis Media CEO Steve King, covering topics including the battle for talent, Publicis’s Spine data solution and maintaining trust with clients. [ AdExchanger ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O'Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com