LAS VEGAS, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Wincash Resources, Inc. (OTC Markets:WCRI) announced today that it has submitted a Notification Form to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) seeking approval by FINRA of a change of the Company’s name to Fovea Jewelry Holdings, Inc., which it hopes to receive in the very near future. This change of name, along with a new trading symbol, will better identify the Company following its recent acquisition of Fovea International Holdings Limited, including the “Fovea” brand of jewelry ( www.fovea-jewellery.com ).
“The Company’s management is excited to be bringing a well-known and respected product line to the Company,” commented Jianmin Zhang, CEO of Wincash Resources, Inc. Mr. Zhang continued, “By aligning our Company name with that of our product line, we expect to bring significant value to the Company and its stockholders.”
About Wincash Resources, Inc.:
Wincash Resources, Inc. is a holding company specializing in the retail jewelry business market. The Fovea brand of jewelry will be sold in major retail department stores in key cities in Asia. In addition, the Company intends to open its own free-standing retail stores under the Fovea brand name. For more information regarding the Company call (702) 505-4599, or email info@wincashresources.com .
Precautionary and Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. "Forward looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or strategies and are generally preceded by words such as "may," "future," "plan" or "planned," "will" or "should," "expected," "anticipates," "draft," "eventually" or "projected." You are cautioned that such statements are subject to a multitude of risks and uncertainties that could cause future circumstances, events, or results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, including the risks that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, and other risks identified in the Company's disclosures or filings with the SEC.
Contact:
Wincash Resources, Inc.
Investor Relations
(702) 505-4599
info@wincashresources.com
Source: Wincash Resources, Inc.
Source:Wincash Resources, Inc.