HOUSTON, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Sterling Group, a Houston-based middle market private equity firm, announced that its portfolio company, Construction Supply Group ("CSG"), has completed the acquisition of Brock White of Wisconsin, a construction supply distributor in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area. Construction Supply Group is a leader in the distribution of construction materials, accessories and tools, primarily for professional concrete and masonry contractors in the United States and Canada. The combined company has 73 branches with 1,150 employees and offers over 70,000 SKUs to nearly 25,000 customers.
Brock White of Wisconsin is the sixth acquisition by Sterling as a part of the Construction Supply platform. Brock White of Wisconsin spun out of CSG's Brock White subsidiary in 1973 and has been operating in the Milwaukee area since that time. Following the transaction, Brock White of Wisconsin will be integrated into Brock White and will continue to go to market under the Brock White name. "Construction Supply Group and Brock White are the perfect fit for our company," said Julie Anderson, Owner and President of Brock White of Wisconsin. "My father acquired the business from Brock White in 1973. By rejoining with Brock White, the business has come full circle. We are excited about the combined company's future."
"This acquisition continues our path toward building North America's leading construction supply distributor. The business gives us better access to serve the Milwaukee market. We are excited to add another great team with many years of experience and success to the CSG family," said Mitch Williams, CEO of Construction Supply Group.
In late 2016, Sterling acquired Brock White Company, LLC, Border Construction Specialties, LLC and Stetson Building Products to form Construction Supply Group. The company later executed a carve-out of five Gerdau distribution branches and the acquisition of Carter Waters, extending its footprint throughout the Midwest. Construction Supply Group will continue to seek further additions to its family of construction distribution businesses.
About The Sterling Group
Founded in 1982, The Sterling Group is a private equity investment firm that targets controlling interests in basic manufacturing, distribution and industrial services companies. Typical enterprise values of these companies range from $100 million to $750 million. Sterling has sponsored the buyout of 51 platform companies and numerous add-on acquisitions for a total transaction value of over $10.0 billion. Currently, Sterling has over $2.2 billion of assets under management. For further information, please visit www.sterling-group.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/construction-supply-group-a-portfolio-company-of-the-sterling-group-acquires-brock-white-of-wisconsin-300577156.html
SOURCE The Sterling Group