MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Mardil Medical Inc., a privately held, clinical-stage medical device company, announced the appointment of Martin Madden to its Board of Directors. A 30-year veteran of Johnson & Johnson's Research & Development division, Madden has unparalleled experience in bringing exceptional new products and technologies to the market. He joins the Board of Directors as the company prepares to begin human clinical trials of its VenTouch® Gen II System in February.
The VenTouch® Gen II System treats the root cause of functional mitral valve regurgitation (FMR) – the enlarged, injured left ventricle. With the VenTouch®, the large population of patients suffering from class IIIb FMR will – for the first time - have a therapy that simultaneously directly addresses the root cause of the condition, the dilated ventricle and displaced papillary muscles, and the resulting symptom, volume overloads caused by the mitral regurgitation.
"Mardil Medical is re-defining the mitral valve disease category with the innovative VenTouch® Gen II System," said Madden. "The industry understands the necessity that the distorted ventricle be improved in this population; treating the healthy valve alone is just not enough. VenTouch® addresses the underlying ventricular mechanisms, and does so on a beating heart with a minimally invasive mini-thoracotomy. I am excited to join this team at a time when we are leading the way in changing the conversation around how FMR should be treated."
Madden's experience in medical device innovation and new product development makes him uniquely qualified to help guide Mardil through the upcoming growth plans. A 30-year industry veteran, Madden retired in 2017 from Johnson & Johnson where he most recently served as Vice President, Research and Development and Vice President Medical Device R&D Transformation.
"There are not many individuals in the industry who have the experience that Martin has accumulated," said Jim Buck , president and CEO of Mardil Medical. "We are very fortunate to have him on our team. With his distinguished track record of leading device development teams, he brings a heightened level of expertise that will help us to realize the full potential for the VenTouch® System platform. With strong momentum from our recognition as the 2017 American Heart Association Cardiology Innovation Grant award winner and the recent closing of another successful round of new financing, we are well poised to enter our next evolution of human study next month."
About Mardil Medical, Inc.
Mardil Medical, Inc., is headquartered in Minneapolis and develops implantable medical devices designed for treating structural heart disease and related conditions. For more information, visit www.mardil.com .
Contact: Jim Buck
President and CEO
Mardil Medical
763 568-7815
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mardil-medical-appoints-martin-madden-to-board-of-directors-300589416.html
SOURCE Mardil Medical Inc.