REDWOOD CITY, Calif., Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Highfive , the company delivering insanely easy video conferencing, today announced the hires of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Celia Poon and Chief Revenue Officer (CRO) Bobby Marhamat .
Poon and Marhamat both bring a wealth of experience to Highfive and are uniquely suited to take the company to the next level. Poon is a veteran finance executive with experience leading corporate finance at Twitter, Zynga, and Yahoo. She spent the last 4 ½ years as VP of Finance at Twitter, where she helped the platform go public and scale the business to over $2 billion in revenue while significantly improving profitability. Marhamat, also a veteran tech executive, was most recently the COO of Revel Systems where he led the company to significantly scale its business and become a leader in an extremely competitive market. His past experiences have shown him how to operate and rapidly scale teams in mature markets.
"After using multiple solutions over the years working at some of the biggest tech businesses in the valley, I was amazed at how video conferencing has remained a pain point for so long. When I saw how easy Highfive is to use, I became really excited about how transformative it could be for businesses," Poon said. "Meeting everyone and learning about the great business they’ve created added to my excitement. I'm looking forward to working with the rest of the Highfive team to scale it as we go through the next phase of growth."
“At Revel, we built a solid SaaS business through a differentiated product aimed at disrupting a mature, competitive market. Highfive has a similar opportunity, but solving a larger problem that impacts so many people – virtually everyone has experienced bad meetings,” Marhamat notes. “Over the last few years, Highfive has developed an amazing product that has evolved the way organizations collaborate, and they continue to introduce new features that create better relationships and improve business productivity. I look forward to working with the Highfive team to accelerate our efforts in bringing the product to a wider variety of customers, including larger organizations and those with an international presence.”
In addition to expanding the executive team, Highfive is hiring across the company to facilitate its expansion goals for 2018. Currently, Highfive has more than twenty open positions on eight different teams. For more information on Highfive, visit www.highfive.com .
About Highfive
Highfive makes meetings awesome with insanely easy video conferencing built for your meeting rooms. With Highfive there are no cables, dongles, app downloads or remote controls. Instead, it’s a modern, all-in-one solution with sleek hardware and integrated cloud-based conferencing software at a fraction of the cost of traditional systems. Highfive is based in Redwood City, California, and backed by General Catalyst, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Andreessen Horowitz, and GV (Google Ventures).
LaunchSquad for HighFive
highfive@launchsquad.com
415-625-8555
Source: Highfive