MANALAPAN, N.J., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Sun Pacific Holding Corp. (OTCQB: SNPW) is pleased to announce that we have added more advertising shelters. Street Smart Outdoor, the wholly owned subsidiary, signed an addendum with the Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA), to increase the number of bus shelters and advertising faces in our inventory. Sun Pacific is excited to grow and manage its outdoor advertising division. We will serve more communities in New England and add additional income of up to $2 million for the life of the contract.
Street Smart Outdoor Corp will build and maintain an additional 32 advertising display faces. We will also utilize the same block chain technology used in crypto currency and our future energy projects in Rhode Island to manage our inventory and maintenance database. This will result in massive efficiencies for our inventory, sales and maintenance tracking.
“We are pleased to offer more bus shelters to serve the members of the Rhode Island community.” says Mr. Nicholas B Campanella CEO and Chairman. “With additional locations in Cranston, Providence, East Providence, Woonsocket, Warwick, Newport, and West Warwick we can better serve the people of Rhode Island.”
About Sun Pacific Holding Corp.
Sun Pacific Holding Corp. (OTCQB: SNPW) uses management's knowledge and experience to serve its customers and now its shareholders through quality service and equipment, working to keep customers satisfied, and by doing our part in protecting the environment with smart green technology. For more information, visit www.sunpacificholding.com .
Safe Harbor and Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future expansion or financial results) and other factors discussed from time to time in the Company's OTC Markets filings. These statements are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties, so actual results may vary materially. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as "may," "should," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan" and other similar expressions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors not within the control of the company. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. The company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.
IR Contact Sun Pacific Holding Corp 215 Gordons Corner Road Manalapan, NJ 07726 Phone: +1 (888) 845-0242 Gabe Rodriguez Email: ir@sunpacificholding.com Website: www.sunpacificholding.com
Source:Sun Pacific Holding Corp.