CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Antares Capital (“Antares”) announced today it is serving as administrative agent and sole bookrunner on a $80.5 million senior secured credit facility to support the acquisition of Potter Electric Signal Company (“Potter”) by Gryphon Investors (“Gryphon”).
Headquartered in Saint Louis, MO, Potter is a designer and manufacturer of commercial fire and safety specialty products. It was founded in 1898 and has 292 employees across 7 global facilities. The company operates through three primary divisions: sprinkler monitoring, fire systems and security systems.
“We have a great history working with the Antares team, including previous transactions within similar types of industries to Potter,” said Dorian Faust, partner at Gryphon Investors. “From this experience we know we can rely on them for flexible financing terms and deep sector knowledge.”
“Gryphon’s acquisition of Potter extends their investment into the fire and safety specialty products space,” said Mary Gaede, managing director at Antares. “With this transaction we have delivered another successful execution for Gryphon, and are excited to see Potter join such a strong team.”
About Gryphon Investors
Based in San Francisco, Gryphon Investors ( www.gryphoninvestors.com ) is a leading private equity firm focused on profitably growing and competitively enhancing middle-market companies in partnership with experienced management. For 20 consecutive quarters, Gryphon has been ranked in Preqin’s prestigious quarterly PE report as one of North America’s top-decile buyout firms based on consistency of strong investment returns. Managing over $2.6 billion of equity investments and capital since 1997, the firm has an extensive track record of leading equity investments of $50 million to $200 million per portfolio company with sales ranging from approximately $100 million to $500 million. Gryphon prioritizes investment opportunities where it can form proactive partnerships with owners and executives to build leading companies, utilizing Gryphon’s capital, specialized professional resources, and operational expertise. Gryphon closed its fourth private equity buyout fund, Gryphon IV, in November 2016 at $1.1 billion, and raised a $100 million captive mezzanine fund, Gryphon Mezzanine Partners, L.P., in August 2017.
About Antares
Antares Capital is a credit manager and leading provider of financing solutions for middle-market, private equity-backed transactions. Offices are located in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk and Toronto. Antares issued more than $18 billion in financing during 2016, and was named 2017 Lender of the Year by ACG NY and 2015 Dealmakers of the Year by Mergers & Acquisitions. Visit us at www.antares.com or follow Antares Capital on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/antarescapital . Antares Capital is a subsidiary of Antares Holdings LP.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006284/en/
Antares Capital
Carol Ann Wharton, 475-266-8053
carolann.wharton@antares.com
Source: Antares Capital