BRYN MAWR, Pa., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation (NASDAQ:BMTC) (the “Corporation”), parent of The Bryn Mawr Trust Company (” BMT ”), announced today the appointment of Miguel Alban as Vice President of their multicultural banking initiative. Effective January 2, 2018, Mr. Alban will report directly to Anthony Poluch, the bank’s CRA Officer, under the leadership of Joe Keefer, Executive Vice President.
Bryn Mawr Trust Appoints Miguel Alban as Vice President of Bryn Mawr Trust’s Multicultural Banking Initiative
“The Delaware Valley is a diverse market area,” said BMT Banking Division President Kevin Tylus. “Enhancing our efforts to serve our communities benefits everyone, individuals, families, and businesses alike. BMT is committed to being inclusive, to providing a full range of financial services to all of our constituents and fostering strong community relationships.”
"We view ourselves not only as a financial service provider, but also an educational partner for our customers and members of the community looking for better ways to manage their finances,” said Joe Keefer. “Miguel’s diverse background makes him a valuable asset and we are pleased to have him join BMT to spearhead this initiative.”
Mr. Alban has significant experience in multicultural marketing, financial services and community relations. Prior to joining BMT, he was the founding President of both The Hispanic Approach and The Hispanic Approach Financial Group. Earlier in his career, he was a Latin America Consultant for AFLG Private Equity Firm, Vice President of Avanti Seguros, and Director of Hispanic Banking at First National Bank of Chester County.
Mr. Alban immigrated to the United States in 2005 from his native Peru after completing his Juris Doctor from the University of Piura. He earned his Masters of Law from the James E. Beasley School of Law at Temple University. Miguel is active in the community serving on several boards including the YMCA of the Greater Brandywine, The Land Conservancy of Southern Chester County, and Baker Industries. He resides in Chester County with his family.
Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation (NASDAQ:BMTC), including its principal subsidiary, The Bryn Mawr Trust Company (founded in 1889; headquartered in Bryn Mawr, Pa.), is a locally managed financial services company providing retail and commercial banking, trust administration and wealth management, and insurance solutions. Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation has $3.5 billion in corporate assets and $12.4 billion in wealth assets under management, administration, supervision, and brokerage (as of 9/30/17). Today, BMT operates 37 full service retail bank locations in Montgomery, Chester, Delaware, Philadelphia and Berks Counties in Pennsylvania, New Castle County in Delaware and Camden County in New Jersey. For more information, visit www.bmtc.com .
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND SAFE HARBOR
This press release contains statements which, to the extent that they are not recitations of historical fact may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements may include financial and other projections as well as statements regarding the Corporation’s future plans, objectives, performance, revenues, growth, profits, operating expenses or the Corporation’s underlying assumptions. The words “may,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “likely,” “possibly,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “target,” “potentially,” “probably,” “outlook,” “predict,” “contemplate,” “continue,” “plan,” “forecast,” “project,” “are optimistic,” “are looking,” “are looking forward” and “believe” or other similar words and phrases may identify forward-looking statements. Persons reading this press release are cautioned that such statements are only predictions, and that the Corporation’s actual future results or performance may be materially different.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, many of which are beyond the Corporation’s control, could cause our actual results, events or developments, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, events or developments expressed, implied or anticipated by such forward-looking statements, and so our business and financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Such factors include, among others, our need for capital, our ability to control operating costs and expenses, and to manage loan and lease delinquency rates; the credit risks of lending activities and overall quality of the composition of our loan, lease and securities portfolio; the impact of economic conditions, consumer and business spending habits, and real estate market conditions on our business and in our market area; changes in the levels of general interest rates, deposit interest rates, or net interest margin and funding sources; changes in banking regulations and policies and the possibility that any banking agency approvals we might require for certain activities will not be obtained in a timely manner or at all or will be conditioned in a manner that would impair our ability to implement our business plans; changes in accounting policies and practices; the inability of key third-party providers to perform their obligations to us; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; competition in our marketplace; war or terrorist activities; our ability to complete anticipated acquisitions and any material differences in the actual financial results, cost savings and revenue enhancements associated with our acquisitions; and other factors as described in our securities filings. All forward-looking statements and information set forth herein are based on Management’s current beliefs and assumptions as of the date hereof and speak only as of the date they are made. The Corporation does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.
For a complete discussion of the assumptions, risks and uncertainties related to our business, you are encouraged to review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any changes in risk factors that we may identify in our quarterly or other reports subsequently filed with the SEC.
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Frank Leto, President, CEO
610.581.4730
Tina S. McDonald, SVP
610.581.4875
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6146dcec-ac62-4a39-ab40-a277646b1c49
Source: BMT