WHEATON, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- First Trust/Aberdeen Global Opportunity Income Fund (the "Fund") (NYSE: FAM) has declared the Fund’s regularly scheduled monthly common share distribution in the amount of $0.075 per share payable on February 15, 2018, to shareholders of record as of February 2, 2018. The ex-dividend date is expected to be February 1, 2018. The monthly distribution information for the Fund appears below.
First Trust/Aberdeen Global Opportunity Income Fund (FAM):
Distribution per share: $0.075 Distribution Rate based on the January 19, 2018 NAV of $13.12: 6.86% Distribution Rate based on the January 19, 2018 closing market price of $11.70: 7.69% This distribution will consist of net investment income earned by the Fund and may also consist of return of capital and/or realized capital gains. The final determination of the source and tax status of all distributions paid in 2018 will be made after the end of 2018 and will be provided on Form 1099-DIV.
The Fund is a diversified, closed-end management investment company that seeks to provide a high level of current income. As a secondary objective, the Fund seeks capital appreciation. The Fund pursues these investment objectives by investing in the world bond markets through a diversified portfolio of investment grade and below-investment grade government and corporate debt securities.
First Trust Advisors L.P., the Fund's investment advisor, along with its affiliate, First Trust Portfolios L.P., are privately-held companies which provide a variety of investment services, including asset management and financial advisory services, with collective assets under management or supervision of approximately $118 billion as of December 31, 2017 through unit investment trusts, exchange-traded funds, closed-end funds, mutual funds and separate managed accounts.
Aberdeen Asset Management Inc. ("Aberdeen") serves as the Fund's investment sub-advisor. Aberdeen is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC which is a direct subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen plc. Aberdeen Standard Investments is the brand name for the asset management group of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, managing approximately $764.4 billion in assets as of September 30, 2017, for a range of pension funds, financial institutions, investment trusts, unit trusts, offshore funds, charities and private clients.
Past performance is no assurance of future results. Investment return and market value of an investment in the Fund will fluctuate. Shares, when sold, may be worth more or less than their original cost.
Principal Risk Factors: The Fund invests in securities of non-U.S. issuers which are subject to higher volatility than securities of U.S. issuers. Risks may be heightened for securities of companies located in, or with significant operations in, emerging market countries. Because the Fund invests in non-U.S. securities, you may lose money if the local currency of a non-U.S. market depreciates against the U.S. dollar.
The Fund invests in non-investment grade debt instruments, commonly referred to as "high-yield securities". High yield securities are subject to greater market fluctuations and risk of loss than securities with higher ratings. Lower-quality debt tends to be less liquid than higher-quality debt.
The debt securities in which the Fund invests are subject to certain risks, including issuer risk, reinvestment risk, prepayment risk, credit risk, and interest rate risk. Issuer risk is the risk that the value of fixed-income securities may decline for a number of reasons which directly relate to the issuer. Reinvestment risk is the risk that income from the Fund's portfolio will decline if the Fund invests the proceeds from matured, traded or called bonds at market interest rates that are below the Fund portfolio's current earnings rate. Prepayment risk is the risk that, upon a prepayment, the actual outstanding debt on which the Fund derives interest income will be reduced. Credit risk is the risk that an issuer of a security will be unable or unwilling to make dividend, interest and/or principal payments when due and that the value of a security may decline as a result. Interest rate risk is the risk that fixed-income securities will decline in value because of changes in market interest rates.
Use of leverage can result in additional risk and cost, and can magnify the effect of any losses.
The risks of investing in the Fund are spelled out in the shareholder reports and other regulatory filings.
The information presented is not intended to constitute an investment recommendation for, or advice to, any specific person. By providing this information, First Trust is not undertaking to give advice in any fiduciary capacity within the meaning of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. First Trust has no knowledge of and has not been provided any information regarding any investor. Financial advisors must determine whether particular investments are appropriate for their clients. First Trust believes the financial advisor is a fiduciary, is capable of evaluating investment risks independently and is responsible for exercising independent judgment with respect to its retirement plan clients.
The Fund’s daily closing New York Stock Exchange price and net asset value per share as well as other information can be found at www.ftportfolios.com or by calling 1-800-988-5891.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006573/en/
First Trust/Aberdeen Global Opportunity Income Fund
Press Inquiries:
Jane Doyle, 630-765-8775
or
Analyst Inquiries:
Jeff Margolin, 630-915-6784
or
Broker Inquiries:
Jeff Margolin, 630-915-6784
Source: First Trust/Aberdeen Global Opportunity Income Fund