FREDERICK, Md., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- U.S. Silica Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: SLCA) today announced the promotion of Billy Ray Smith to senior vice president and president, Oil & Gas Proppants, effective Jan. 1, 2018. Mr. Smith succeeds Don D. Weinheimer, who will be retiring but will stay on for an interim period to support the transition as vice president of strategic marketing. Mr. Smith will join the Company's Executive Management Team and report to Brad Casper, executive vice president and chief commercial officer.
Mr. Smith joined U.S. Silica in March, 2017 as vice president of Oil & Gas, bringing over two decades of experience in the Oil & Gas exploration and services business. Prior to joining U.S. Silica, Mr. Smith held various positions of increasing responsibility at Halliburton, a global energy services company since 1995, including as North American Technology Director from Oct. 2015 to March, 2017. Mr. Smith holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas Tech University.
"Billy Ray's proven leadership abilities, strong business acumen and outstanding relationship skills will be tremendous assets in his new role and I couldn't be more pleased and excited,'' said Bryan Shinn, president and chief executive officer. "Billy Ray is widely respected in the industry and the Board and I have complete confidence that he will drive continued growth and successfully respond to the fast and ever-changing needs of our Oil & Gas customers,'' Shinn added.
"At the same time, I want to express my sincerest thanks to Don Weinheimer for his five years of tireless dedication and leadership in building an enviable and industry-leading Oil & Gas operation. Don has earned the trust and respect of our employees, customers, shareholders and business partners and we wish him all the best,'' Shinn noted.
"I'm honored and excited to assume these additional duties and lead the Oil & Gas operations at U.S. Silica,'' said Smith. "I look forward to helping take our Oil & Gas business to the next level by continuing to stay ahead of industry trends and evolving our capabilities to match changing customer dynamics,'' he added.
About U.S. Silica
U.S. Silica Holdings, Inc., a member of the Russell 2000, is a leading producer of commercial silica used in the oil and gas industry, and in a wide range of industrial applications. Over its 117-year history, U.S. Silica has developed core competencies in mining, processing, logistics and materials science that enable it to produce and cost-effectively deliver over 200 products to customers across our end markets. The Company currently operates nine industrial sand production plants and eight oil and gas sand production plants. The Company is headquartered in Frederick, Maryland and also has offices located in Chicago, Illinois and Houston, Texas.
U.S. Silica Holdings, Inc.
Michael Lawson
Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications
(301) 682-0304
lawsonm@ussilica.com
Nick Shaver
Investor Relations Manager
281-394-9630
shavern@ussilica.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-silica-announces-promotion-of-billy-ray-smith-to-senior-vice-president-and-president-oil--gas-proppants-300576494.html
SOURCE U.S. Silica Holdings, Inc.