NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today, Oath, a Verizon (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) subsidiary and the parent company of Yahoo, AOL, HuffPost, and other dynamic brands that serve a combined billion global consumers, announces that Vanessa Wittman will join the company as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Ms. Wittman is a recognized business leader with impressive financial experience in the tech and media industries, having previously served as CFO at Dropbox, Motorola, and Marsh & McLennan.
At Oath, Ms. Wittman will lead global financial strategy and operations. She will partner with Oath CEO Tim Armstrong to help propel Oath's strategic expansion as it becomes one of the world's largest internet and mobile brand companies.
“Vanessa is an exceptional leader with singular experience, and she will be a great partner to help drive Oath's vision, strategy, and operations to reach our long term goals,” said Tim Armstrong, CEO, Oath. “Vanessa joins Oath at an exciting point in our journey to build a differentiated company creating the future of mobile and the internet in combination with Verizon. I want to thank Holly Hess for being a founding force at Oath, as well as a driver behind the original Verizon and AOL deal. She made significant contributions to Oath and we look forward to continued collaboration with Holly in her new role at Verizon.”
“I’m thrilled to join the Oath leadership team to help accelerate its growth,” said Vanessa Wittman, CFO, Oath. “The team has laid a solid foundation through the integration efforts over the last several months, and I look forward to helping drive the expansion of current business lines while investing in innovative bets for the future.”
Oath’s former CFO Holly Hess will take on a newly created role at Verizon where she will lead Verizon’s previously announced $10B cost savings initiative. Ms. Hess will report to Verizon CFO Matt Ellis. In her three years at Oath, Ms. Hess lead the Oath team through the close of Verizon’s acquisition of Yahoo in June 2017, strengthening Oath’s global financial infrastructure and establishing best-in-class revenue and accounting systems through the integration.
About Oath
Oath, a subsidiary of Verizon, is a values-led company committed to building brands people love. Oath reaches one billion people around the world with a dynamic house of media and technology brands. A global leader in digital and mobile, Oath is shaping the future of media. For more on Oath, visit www.oath.com .
About Verizon
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York City, generated $126 billion in 2017 revenues. The company operates America’s most reliable wireless network and the nation’s premier all-fiber network, and delivers integrated solutions to businesses worldwide.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005133/en/
Oath Media Relations:
Suzanne Philion
press@oath.com
or
VZ Media Relations
Adria Tomaszewski
Adria.tomaszewski@verizonwireless.com
Source: Oath