INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kite Realty Group Trust (NYSE:KRG) (the “Company”) announced today that David Buell has been promoted to the role of Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, effective January 1, 2018. Mr. Buell previously served as the Company’s Corporate Controller, a position he had held since 2014. Mr. Buell replaces Thomas Olinger, who retired from the company.
“Dave has been an instrumental member of our management team since his arrival in 2010, and we are excited to welcome him to his new role. His exceptional acumen and professionalism are second to none, and the team is looking forward to his continued success,” said John Kite, Chief Executive Officer. “Tom has been a trusted and valued member of the Kite team as our CAO, and we are very thankful for his service and contribution during his 13-year tenure with the company.”
In his new role, Mr. Buell will be responsible for managing the Company’s accounting, financial reporting and tax functions. He will report directly to Dan Sink, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before joining the Company, Mr. Buell was a Senior Manager at KPMG LLP. He holds B.S. degrees in Accounting and Finance from Indiana University and is a certified public accountant.
About Kite Realty Group Trust
Kite Realty Group Trust is a full-service, vertically integrated real estate investment trust (REIT) engaged primarily in the ownership and operation, acquisition, development and redevelopment of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers in select markets in the United States. As of September 30, 2017, we owned interests in 117 operating and redevelopment properties totaling approximately 23.1 million square feet and two development projects currently under construction.
Our strategy is to maximize the cash flow of our operating properties, successfully complete the construction and lease-up of our redevelopment and development portfolio, and identify additional opportunities to acquire or dispose of properties to further strengthen the Company. New investments are focused in the shopping center sector primarily in markets where we believe we can leverage our existing infrastructure and relationships to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns or otherwise in desirable trade areas. Dispositions are generally designed to increase the quality of our portfolio and to strengthen the Company’s balance sheet.
Contact Information: Dan Sink EVP & CFO (317) 577-5609 dsink@kiterealty.com
Source:Kite Realty Group Trust