CHINO, Calif., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Diamond Wipes International, Inc. (Diamond Wipes; www.diamondwipes.com ), a California-based wet wipe manufacturer, announced today the appointment of its new president Jessica Lum. As the company president, Lum will oversee the organization's day-to-day operation. Founder, co-owner, and current president Eve Yen will assume the role of CEO. Yen will collaborate with Lum to envision and strategize the future of the company.
"When I started Diamond Wipes 23 years ago, I dreamed big. We now have over 400 employees committed to making all kinds of wipes every day," says Yen, a first-generation immigrant from Taiwan, a wife, and a mother of two. "Today, with Jessica at the helm, I am so excited to see what Diamond Wipes will be in 2020, 2030, and beyond!"
Prior to serving as COO of Diamond Wipes, Lum was a vice president of operations at Texen Topline. She also held managerial positions at Henkel Corporation and Intel Corporation.
"Eve has been a true leader in the wet wipe industry. I hope that under Jessica's new leadership, Diamond Wipes will continue to grow and be an innovating pioneer," states Peter Nolan, the former managing partner and the current senior advisor to Leonard Green & Partners. Nolan is also the chairman of Nolan Capital, an equity investment partner to Diamond Wipes. "I am equally excited at the prospect of this organization staying true to its women-owned and operated heritage."
"I am truly honored for this opportunity to continue working with the Diamond Wipes family," says Lum. "We made many manufacturing improvements in 2017. We will continue to enhance our capabilities and expand our capacity this year to service our customers better and bring more customers onboard."
Lum holds MBA from Duke University's Fuqua School of Business and BS in biology and chemistry from California Institute of Technology. She is happily married with a husband and two children.
About Diamond Wipes International
Diamond Wipes International, Inc. (Diamond Wipes; www.diamondwipes.com ) is a leading American wet wipe converter founded in 1994. Diamond Wipes specializes in contract manufacturing and private label of pre-moistened towelettes and sample size liquid filling. Headquartered in Chino, California, the WBENC and WOSB-certified business operates its FDA-licensed and EPA-registered manufacturing facilities adjacent to Los Angeles and in Bucyrus, Ohio.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/diamond-wipes-announces-new-president-300575957.html
SOURCE Diamond Wipes International, Inc.