DETROIT, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Alexander A. Ayar has joined the Detroit office of McDonald Hopkins LLC, a business advisory and advocacy law firm, as member in the Litigation Department. He comes to McDonald Hopkins from Foster Swift Collins & Smith.
Ayar has 12 years of legal experience with a practice focused on complex litigation matters involving business, real estate, construction, employment, data privacy and cyber security.
"We are very excited to add to the firm an experienced litigator like Alex," said James J. Giszczak, chair of the Litigation Department. "Alex brings to McDonald Hopkins a wide spectrum of legal knowledge, experiences and capabilities that will assist our clients with their legal and business counseling needs."
Ayar is a multi-year recipient of the dBusiness Top Lawyers Award for Business Litigation, a multi-year Super Lawyers, Rising Stars, award winner for Business Litigation, a recipient of Michigan Lawyers Weekly Up & Coming Lawyers Award, a recipient of a Special Tribute from the Michigan Legislature for demonstrating "advanced legal acumen, devotion to clients, and an exemplary reputation in the legal field" and was named Attorney on the Rise by the Chaldean-American Bar Association.
Ayar is a member in various legal and community organizations, such as the Judicial Advisory Committee of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, where he participated in a process of vetting and recommending applicants to fill judicial vacancies – recommendations which ultimately reached the White House for use in making judicial appointments. He is also a fellow of the Oakland County Bar Foundation, a past president of the Chaldean-American Bar Association, a member of the State Bar of Michigan Client Protection Fund Committee, the Chaldean Federation of America and the Chaldean American Chamber of Commerce.
He earned his J.D., cum laude, from Wayne State University Law School in 2006 and received a B.S. in economics with honors from Oakland University in 2003.
Ayar can be reached at aayar@mcdonaldhopkins.com or 248.220.1353.
About McDonald Hopkins
Founded in 1930, McDonald Hopkins is a business advisory and advocacy law firm with locations in Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Miami, and West Palm Beach. With more than 50 service and industry teams, the firm has the expertise and knowledge to meet the growing number of legal and business challenges our clients face. For more information about McDonald Hopkins, visit mcdonaldhopkins.com .
CONTACT:
Deborah W. Kelm
McDonald Hopkins LLC
600 Superior Avenue, East, Suite 2100
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Phone: 216.348.5733
Email: dkelm@mcdonaldhopkins.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/award-winning-litigator-alexander-ayar-joins-mcdonald-hopkins-300584721.html
SOURCE McDonald Hopkins