GREENWICH, Conn., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Gramercy Funds Management LLC, a $6 billion dedicated emerging markets investment manager, today announced the appointment of Belinda Hill to the position of Managing Director, Research Analyst. Ms. Hill has over 16 years of experience, most recently with Apollo Global Management where she analyzed emerging markets sovereign, quasi-sovereign and corporate issuers across all sectors while sourcing and evaluating strategic initiatives and private investment opportunities.
Ms. Hill will be a senior member of the research team and will bring her significant experience to the idea generation process and asset management functions at Gramercy. She joins a team of approximately a dozen analysts covering corporate and sovereign credit in emerging markets.
Commenting on the appointment, Managing Partner and Chief Investment Officer Robert Koenigsberger said, "Fundamental, proprietary credit research has always been at the core of Gramercy's investment process. Belinda's analytical expertise strengthens our team and her ability to generate investment ideas will directly benefit our portfolios."
"Gramercy is known as a leader in emerging markets investing," said Ms. Hill, "I am excited to join a team that shares my passion for the asset class and will allow me to have a tangible impact for investors."
Prior to Apollo, Ms. Hill was an emerging markets corporate credit analyst at Schroders Investment Management, where she conducted fundamental research on investment grade and high yield credit across all sectors. She also provided various portfolio managers with value-added actionable trading recommendations for Latin America based on fundamental and relative value analysis. Ms. Hill also spent time at HPP, PepsiCo and Credit Suisse. She graduated Cum Laude from Georgetown University earning her Bachelor of Science in Business Administration.
Abou t Gramercy:
Gramercy is a $6 billion dedicated emerging markets investment manager based in Greenwich, Connecticut with a research presence in London, Hong Kong, Mexico City and Buenos Aires. The firm, founded in 1998, seeks to provide investors with superior risk-adjusted returns through a comprehensive approach to emerging markets, supported by a transparent and robust institutional platform. Gramercy offers both alternative and long-only strategies across all emerging markets asset classes including capital solutions, private credit, distressed debt, equity, private equity, special situations, USD debt, local currency debt and high yield/corporate debt. www.gramercy.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gramercy-funds-management-expands-credit-research-team-with-the-hiring-of-belinda-hill-300581581.html
SOURCE Gramercy