OAK BROOK, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC announced today that it negotiated and closed the purchase of a 29,702-square-foot medical office building located in Salt Lake City. Matthew Tice, senior vice president of Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC, completed the deal, with assistance from David Neboyskey, assistant vice president and associate counsel of The Inland Real Estate Group, LLC, Law Department, on behalf of an Inland affiliate.
Constructed in 2015, the two-story property is located at 755 East 3900 South and includes the Eye Institute of Utah, Utah’s premier eye care clinic, and an ambulatory surgical center, The SurgiCare Center of Utah. The Eye Institute of Utah clinic features more than 20 exam and consultation rooms, advanced diagnostic testing and imaging, administrative office space and a state-of-the-art LASIK and Vision Specialty Center. The SurgiCare Center of Utah performs a variety of advanced procedures and includes four surgical rooms, a large waiting room, a patient surgical viewing area and recovery rooms.
“Conveniently located in the heart of the Salt Lake Valley, the property’s ideal location off Interstate 80 and Interstate 15 near St. Marks Hospital provides nearly 358,000 people within a five-mile radius with convenient access to meet their healthcare and medical needs,” said Tice. “The newly constructed facility, along with its cutting edge medical technology and professionals, made the Eye Care Institute of Utah the type of attractive acquisition we continue to seek out in this asset class.”
To date, Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC has facilitated more than $45 billion of purchases including retail centers, apartments, single-tenant properties and a total of more than $292 million in medical office buildings.
About Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC
Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC assists in identifying potential acquisition opportunities, negotiates acquisition-related contracts and acquires real estate assets for the various entities that are a part of The Inland Real Estate Group of Companies, Inc., a group of independent legal entities, some of which may be affiliates, share some common ownership or have been sponsored or managed by Inland Real Estate Investment Corporation or its subsidiaries (collectively, “Inland”). For additional information, please refer to Inland’s website at www.inlandgroup.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005831/en/
Inland Communications
Alyssa Campbell, (630) 218-2887
alyssa.campbell@inlandgroup.com
Source: Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC