PacStar’s PS400-Series is the baseband solution for both the Lite and Heavy T2C2 systems
PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- PacStar , a leading developer and supplier of advanced communications solutions for commercial, industrial and defense markets, today announced its 400-Series small form factor (SFF) tactical and deployable communications modules will move to full rate production for the U.S. Army Transportable Tactical Command Communications (T2C2) program. PacStar modules – which provide baseband networking for the T2C2 program’s Lite and Heavy systems – satisfactorily completed operational testing with the 4 th Brigade Combat Team, 25 th Infantry Division at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
PacStar equipment, when paired with T2C2 satellite terminals, will enable early entry forces to access the Army’s tactical communications network. The program will field two variants: a soldier-portable T2C2 Lite for early entry forces and a T2C2 Heavy for company-level command post/forward operating base communications.
PacStar’s baseband system consists of routing, switching and servers based on the patented and field-proven PacStar 400-Series solutions , incorporating Cisco networking and switching technologies and Intel advanced processors in rugged, small form factor modules. A patented snap together design allows multiple modules to share power from a common set of rechargeable batteries. All components and modules are fully interchangeable across Lite and Heavy variants. This interchangeability reduces training time, improves logistics, maximizes flexibility and supports ongoing program growth and development while protecting investment.
“PacStar has a long and successful track record of delivering innovative, state-of-the-art tactical networking gear to military and civilian organizations,” said Peggy Miller, chief executive officer, PacStar. “The U.S. Army’s selection of PacStar for the T2C2 program validates the savings in SWaP and modularity of our designs. It also underscores our commitment to quality, responsive technical support and significant investment in ongoing product advancement.”
In 2018 the Army plans to field T2C2 to 15 operational elements including seven brigade combat teams, four division headquarters, one corps headquarters, one military intelligence brigade and one expeditionary signal battalion. The Army plans to procure T2C2 until early 2025.
About PacStar
Pacific Star Communications, Inc. (PacStar) is a leading technology-based systems integrator that delivers advanced, reliable and interoperable tactical and enterprise communications systems to the military, federal, state and local government agencies, as well as emergency responders. The company’s patented IQ-Core Software and hardware technology and integration/installation services provide secure, command, control and communications systems – particularly in remote or infrastructure starved areas. In addition, PacStar’s unified and tactical network communications systems are ideally suited for commercial sector organizations with mission-critical, complex communications requirements. For additional information, please visit www.pacstar.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005093/en/
Bluetext for Pacific Star Communications, Inc.
Brian Lustig, +1 202-836-9112
Brian@Bluetext.com
or
McKenzie Worldwide for Pacific Star Communications, Inc.
Brian Edwards, +1 503-863-2002
briane@mckenzieworldwide.com
Source: Pacific Star Communications, Inc.