Longtime attorney and claims specialist to service national portfolio of law firm clients
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Longtime attorney and claims specialist Jennifer Groszek has joined the ProQuest division of Alliant as Vice President, Claims Advocate Lead, where she will provide risk management, consulting, and claims management and resolution services to a broad array of clients across the U.S. The Chicago-based Groszek joins Alliant with extensive expertise advising in complex claims for clients ranging from large, multinational corporations to regional and community operations.
“As ProQuest continues to expand its reach, our clients require the expertise of a claims advocate who knows the law firm space and can manage even the most complex of claims,” said Craig Howser, Executive Vice President, ProQuest. “Jennifer is a seasoned veteran who understands how to successfully analyze and resolve claims in today’s high-risk business climate.”
Groszek has more than 15 years of experience as an attorney, claims specialist, and business consultant. Her background in both the public and private sectors has enabled her to develop broad-based expertise that she employs to ensure clients’ claims are resolved swiftly and accurately.
Prior to joining ProQuest, Groszek was a Claims Consultant and Attorney managing high-exposure D&O and E&O liability claims for a broad range of clients. Groszek, who began her career as an Assistant State’s Attorney, also has extensive experience with toxic tort and environmental law.
Groszek holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Wisconsin – Stevens Point and a law degree from Valparaiso University School of Law. She is an active member of the Illinois Association of Defense Trial Counsel (IDC), where she has received numerous awards for her service and professional accomplishments.
About ProQuest
ProQuest , a division of Alliant Insurance Services, provides tailored risk solutions to meet the unique needs of law firms throughout the United States. As a premier insurance partner to the legal community, ProQuest’s team of professionals offers keen insights into the legal profession and the special challenges confronting law firms today, providing creative and successful solutions in the face of the volatile economic and insurance market cycles.
About Alliant Specialty Insurance Services (ASIS)
Alliant Specialty Insurance Services (ASIS) combines sound underwriting, superior claims management, and powerful distribution to deliver a range of industry-specific insurance solutions. ASIS employs a broker-centric approach to the business, offering a full range of insurance and risk management products and services backed by enhanced carrier relationships. ASIS programs are designed to position broker partners and their clients for optimum success.
About Alliant Insurance Services
Headquartered in Newport Beach, CA, Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. provides property and casualty, workers’ compensation, employee benefits, surety, and financial products and services to clients nationwide, including public entities, tribal nations, healthcare, energy, law firms, real estate, construction, and other industry groups. More information is available on the company’s website at www.alliant.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005405/en/
Alliant Insurance Services
Lynda Lane
Senior Vice President and Corporate Director
Marketing and Corporate Communications
(949) 260-5050
llane@alliant.com
Source: Alliant Insurance Services