NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Belardi Wong, a leading integrated marketing and creative solutions firm, introduces an expanded menu of digital services to be led by industry expert, Angela Caltagirone, as Executive Vice President of Digital Services and CRM.
Angela is a former Williams-Sonoma, Inc. marketing executive with 20+ years of experience. While there, her work spanned across all seven brands in digital and CRM. She is a strategic leader whom specializes in customer analytics, predictive modeling, marketing attribution and LTV measurement.
Angela is highly regarded as a change agent. She has built centers of excellence in SEM/PLA, SEO, Display, Paid Social, and more – while simultaneously executing strong strategic decisions for campaigns based on her deep knowledge of advanced analytics ranging from catalog marketing to the digital base. Angela has managed hundred million dollar-plus marketing budgets while collaborating with C-level leaders to deliver growth and P&L operating contribution goals. Angela is a council member and speaker for The Retail Ascendant Network and eTail West, and has been a guest presenter at shop.org , the DMA and various vendor-partner conferences.
"While we have been occupying the digital services space for quite some time, we are excited to enhance our offering and give our clients an even more vigorous in-depth experience," said President, Donna Belardi. "With Angela at the helm, we have no doubt that her passion and vast retail background paired with her aptitude to make strategic decisions will give our clients just that."
Kicking off its 20 th anniversary this year, the firm continues to focus on expanding talent and services in-house.
In October 2017, Belardi Wong also welcomed Athena Spencer as Vice President, Strategic and Analytical Services to the team. As a multi-faceted leader, she brings years of experience in integrated marketing, e-commerce, branding, process, and analytics to the organization. She has partnered with creative, merchandising and financial teams to drive acquisition and retention strategies, including developing database solutions.
About Belardi Wong
Belardi Wong is a leading full-service marketing and creative firm founded in 1997, which provides omni-channel solutions for commercial and non-profit clients including J. Crew, American Girl, Restoration Hardware, Sundance, New Balance, Lucky Brand, CB2, J. Jill, Petco, Distinctive Apparel, Cornerstone Brands, Talbots, Harriet Carter, Blue Apron, Bluestem Brands, Vermont Country Store, Coldwater Creek, Hammacher Schlemmer, New York University, NAACP, EMILY's List, and Human Rights Watch. For more information, visit www.belardiwong.com .
Media contact:
Bethany Christie
Marketing Manager
bethanyc@belardiwong.com
212-381-1744
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/belardi-wong-expands-digital-services-and-crm-division-with-former-williams-sonoma-inc-executive-angela-caltagirone-leading-the-charge-300582213.html
SOURCE Belardi Wong