CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Kemper Corporation (NYSE: KMPR) announced today that Duane Sanders will join the company as President, Property & Casualty Division, effective January 24.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006471/en/
Duane Sanders, President, Property & Casualty, Kemper Corporation (Photo: Business Wire)
Sanders will report to Joseph P. Lacher, Jr., Kemper’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and will be based in Chicago. Sanders’ direct reports include the executives who lead the Kemper Preferred, Kemper Specialty, Kemper Specialty California, and Alliance United businesses, as well as various P&C supporting functions.
“Duane is a proven P&C leader, with an impressive track record and considerable industry knowledge,” said Lacher. “His focus on strategic thinking, product management, underwriting, claims effectiveness, operations, and agency relations makes him an excellent addition to Kemper’s leadership team, as we continue to grow our businesses and build long-term value for our stakeholders.”
Sanders joins Kemper from The Travelers, where he held a variety of roles including CEO and COO of Travelers Canada, several senior management positions in Personal Insurance, Business Insurance, Claims and International, and most recently, SVP of Small Commercial. He has also held leadership positions at Fortune Financial, Cigna Financial, and Progressive Insurance. Sanders received a BA in Natural Science from the University of South Florida.
About Kemper
The Kemper family of companies is one of the nation’s leading insurers. With $8 billion in assets, Kemper is improving the world of insurance by offering personalized solutions for individuals, families and businesses. Kemper's businesses collectively:
Offer insurance for home, auto, life, health and valuables Service six million policies Are represented by 20,000 agents and brokers Employ 5,750 associates dedicated to providing exceptional service Are licensed to sell insurance in 50 states and the District of Columbia
Learn more about Kemper .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006471/en/
Kemper
News Media:
Barbara Ciesemier
312.661.4521
bciesemier@kemper.com
or
Investors:
Todd Barton
312.661.4930
investors@kemper.com
Source: Kemper