SAN DIEGO, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Crinetics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a rare disease therapeutics company focused on endocrine disorders and endocrine-related cancers, today announced the appointment of Marc Wilson to the executive team as Chief Financial Officer.
“We are pleased to welcome Marc Wilson to the Crinetics management team as our Chief Financial Officer,” said Scott Struthers, Ph.D., Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Crinetics. “Marc has a strong background in financial strategy and reporting, previously working in various roles with three publicly traded biotechnology companies, and his deep understanding of the financial needs of development stage biotechs will prove invaluable to us as we execute on our clinical development plans and next phases of growth.”
Mr. Wilson joins Crinetics from Cidara Therapeutics, where he was Vice President of Finance and Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer. At Cidara, he led the accounting and finance functions following its Series A financing and through its initial public offering. Prior to Cidara, Mr. Wilson was Director of Accounting and Controller at Trius Therapeutics until its acquisition by Cubist Pharmaceuticals. Prior to Trius, Mr. Wilson was an Accounting Manager at Neurocrine Biosciences. He began his career with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and is a certified public accountant. Mr. Wilson earned a bachelor’s degree in economics and accounting from the College of the Holy Cross.
About Crinetics Pharmaceuticals
Crinetics Pharmaceuticals is a clinical-stage biotechnology company focusing on treatments for rare endocrine disorders and endocrine-related cancers. The company is currently conducting a Phase 1 trial with its oral somatostatin agonist, CRN00808, for the treatment of acromegaly, an orphan disease affecting more than 24,000 people in the United States. The company is also developing other oral somatostatin agonists for neuroendocrine tumors, hyperinsulinism, and chronic pain, as well as an oral small molecule for Cushing's disease. Crinetics was founded by a team of scientists with a proven track record of endocrine drug discovery and development. The company is backed by top life sciences investors including 5AM Ventures, Versant Ventures and Vivo Capital, and is headquartered in San Diego. For additional information please visit www.crinetics.com .
Contacts:
Scott Struthers, Ph.D.
Founder & CEO
IR@crinetics.com
(858) 450-6464
Robert H. Uhl
Westwicke Partners
robert.uhl@westwicke.com
(858) 356-5932
Source:Crinetics Pharmaceuticals, Inc.