AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Beanitos, Inc., the leader in super-food bean-based snacking, announced that Giannella Alvarez has joined the Company as Chief Executive Officer effective January 22, 2018.
Giannella Alvarez has had a career in U.S. and international consumer products goods with premier brands and companies for more than 25 years. Previously, Alvarez served as CEO of Harmless Harvest, where she led the company for almost two and a half years to new heights of growth and success. She currently serves as a Director on the Board at Domtar Corporation and on the board of Ruth's Hospitality Group Inc.
Giannella is succeeding Dan Costello, who accepted a President role at X2 Energy Beverages.
"Giannella will bring to Beanitos a wealth of knowledge and experience in food and beverages," says Mr. Costello. The entire Beanitos team is thrilled to welcome Giannella as the new CEO. "I am confident that Giannella's caliber of experience and leadership will accelerate Beanitos' rapid growth in the snacking category," says Beanitos Founder, Doug Foreman.
Beanitos continues its mission to offer better-for-you snacks that deliver on both flavor and nutrition powered by beans. "I am very excited to join the passionate Beanitos team. With so many snacking options out there, Beanitos offers a snack platform that is rich in plant-based protein and fiber in a wide variety of delicious flavors. Together, we will continue to innovate the snack industry and help educate consumers on the superfood power of beans," says Giannella Alvarez.
About Beanitos®
Founded in 2010, Beanitos is passionate about sharing the infinite snacking possibilities offered by their favorite superfood – beans. The Beanitos team unlocked the power of beans turning them into a complete line of bean-based snacks, every Beanitos snack is packed with protein, fiber, antioxidants and flavor. Beanitos are available nationwide in the chip aisles in natural and mass-market grocers such as Kroger, HEB, Whole Foods, Publix, Safeway and Sprouts. The Austin, Texas-based company is one of the fast growing better-for-you snack chip brands in America. For more information, visit Beanitos.co m . Beans are Better™.
Contact:
Alicia Ward
Beanitos, Inc.
(512) 609-8017 ext. 112
pr@beanitos.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/giannella-alvarez-joins-beanitos-as-new-ceo-300589572.html
SOURCE Beanitos