DENVER, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- CBx Sciences today announced that it has acquired the rights to Evolab 's cannabis brands and product development platform. The company now holds exclusive rights to Evolab's intellectual property, including all technology, methodologies, trademarks and formulations.
"CBx Sciences was founded with the goal of advancing the global cannabis industry by creating the most effective products, formulations and technology platforms," explained Nicole Smith, CEO, CBx Sciences. "This arrangement will allow us to bring Evolab's tried and true, production-level extraction, purification and manufacturing technology to our partners across the rapidly expanding global cannabis ecosystem."
Evolab's CO2 extraction, distillation, purification and manufacturing solutions are unrivaled in the cannabis industry and will be the cornerstone of many of CBx Sciences' initial projects. Evolab's product lines including Chroma™, Alchemy™, COLORS and FreshTerps™ have established reputations as some of the most innovative cannabis products in the legal market and have been recognized in a number of cannabis industry award programs including the Cannabis Business Awards, High Times Cannabis Cup, Hemp Connoisseur Championship and others.
As part of the arrangement announced today, Evolab will manufacture the full line of CBx Sciences topical, inhalation and edible products in Colorado for distribution in medical and recreational outlets. Learn more about CBx Sciences products and find current availability at CBxSciences.com
About Evolab:
Evolab is a pioneer in the use of chromatography and CO2 to produce pharmaceutical-grade cannabis extracts. The company manufactures a full range of cannabis extracts and infused products that are rich in terpenes and pure cannabinoids -- while remaining free of solvents, cutting agents and diluting additives. Founded in 2011, Evolab is based in Denver, Colorado. Learn more at www.evolab.com
About CBx Sciences:
CBx Sciences is an international botanical technology company. Founded by a team of seasoned experts, the company is dedicated to advancing the global cannabis industry by creating effective products, formulations and technology platforms. CBx Sciences holds distribution, licensing and intellectual property agreements with a number of leading cannabis and healthcare brands. Learn more at CBxSciences.com
Supporting Resources:
Follow @evolabco2 on:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/evolabco/ Twitter: https://twitter.com/evolabco2 Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/evolabco2
Media Inquiries:
Graham Sorkin
graham@cbxsciences.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cbx-sciences-acquires-evolab-ip-and-brands-for-global-expansion-300579630.html
SOURCE Evolab