PHILADELPHIA and TORONTO, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- HKA, one of the world's leading providers of consulting, expert and advisory services, announces two executive appointments.
Richard Fogarasi, Principal of HKA's Toronto office, has been promoted to lead the firm's Canadian business operations. Fogarasi has over 25 years of project management, claims consulting, cost estimating and scheduling experience in the engineering and construction industries. His project portfolio spans a wide range of market sectors including commercial buildings, mining and metals, nuclear, renewable energy, transport infrastructure, water and wastewater treatment. Fogarasi holds a Bachelor of Applied Science (BASc) in Civil Engineering from the University of Toronto and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from the University of British Columbia. He is also a Licensed Professional Engineer in the Province of Ontario, Canada.
Peter Landauer joins HKA as Principal within the Americas Business Development team based in Philadelphia. Landauer has more than 20 years of experience leading successful initiatives in the utilities and communications sectors. Prior to joining HKA, he was a Business Solutions Executive with IBM, where he developed consulting and software solution services within the North American utility sector. He holds a Bachelor of Science (BS) in General Sciences from the United States Naval Academy and completed the Program for Management Development (PMD) at Harvard Business School.
"We congratulate Richard and Peter on their new positions at HKA," said Frank J. Giunta, Partner and President of HKA Americas. "I am confident that both executives will have a positive impact on the growth of our North American operations," added Giunta.
HKA is a privately owned, independent consultancy firm for the construction, manufacturing, process and technology industries. Our global portfolio includes some of the world's largest and most prestigious projects across a wide range of market sectors that include buildings, industrial, infrastructure, oil and gas, power and utilities, and technology. HKA has over 960 professionals in more than 40 offices in 21 countries worldwide.
For further information, please contact:
John P. Paolin
Director of Communications
HKA
(215) 309-7786
johnpaolin@hka.com
HKA.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hka-announces-two-executive-appointments-300577299.html
SOURCE HKA Global