Anjali Kumar, Rosie O’Neill and Donna Wells Bring Revolutionary Social Innovation, Consumer Marketing and FinTech Experience to Happy Money
COSTA MESA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Happy Money, the only financial company innovating at the intersection of psychology and money, today announced the appointment of three new women to their Board of Directors: Anjali Kumar, Rosie O’Neill and Donna Wells.
“We are honored to have such an accomplished group of leaders join our Board,” said Scott Saunders, Founder and CEO of Happy Money. “Today’s financial services providers are not delivering financial products and experiences that cater to people’s happiness. The appointment of our new industry-disrupting Directors will enhance our unconventional approach to finance, and we see them as a driving force supporting Happy Money’s innovation at the intersection of psychology and money to help people live happier lives.”
Anjali Kumar currently serves as Chief People Officer and General Counsel for Cheddar, the financial news network live-streamed from the New York Stock Exchange. Kumar was formerly the Head of Social Innovation and Founding General Counsel at Warby Parker and prior to that served as Senior Counsel at Google. She currently serves on the Board of Directors of GloScience Professional, Amplifier, Edible Schoolyard NY and GrowNYC, and has been an advisor to the Malala Fund, IDEO.org and Organize.org . Kumar is currently an Adjunct Professor at Columbia Business School and will release her first book, Stalking God: My Unorthodox Search for Something To Believe In, on January 16, 2018.
Rosie O'Neill is the Co-Founder and Chief Creative Officer of Sugarfina, a luxury candy boutique featuring a collection of artisan sweets from around the globe. Named to Fast Company’s “100 Most Creative People” list and Goldman Sachs "100 Most Intriguing Entrepreneurs," O’Neill and her team are disrupting the $200B confections space with an innovative approach to product and retail. Prior to Sugarfina, O’Neill served for seven years as Director of Marketing for Barbie at Mattel where she led a $600M global business unit that sold more than 50 million Barbie dolls annually.
Donna Wells is a successful serial entrepreneur, an experienced Public and Private Board Director and an innovator in the financial services, FinTech and cloud software industries. Most recently, she served as the President, CEO and Board Director of Mindflash.com , a leading platform for online training. Prior to Mindflash, Wells had a nearly 20-year career in the financial services industry including serving as the CMO of Mint.com from product launch to company acquisition, as well as senior marketing roles at both American Express and Intuit. Wells’ teams’ work has won multiple Webbys and recognition as a Tech Pioneer by the World Economic Forum in Davos. She has been named a Top 25 Women in Tech to Watch by Accenture and a Marketing Executive of the Year Finalist by the Wall Street Journal. Wells currently serves on the Board of Directors of Boston Private Bank and the Board of Advisors of Mitek Systems.
In addition to Kumar, O’Neill and Wells, Happy Money’s existing board members include Bob Allison, founder of Innovate Partners; Joe Saunders, former CEO of Visa; Matt Wilson, former CFO of Happy Money; and Sean Park, founder of Anthemis Group.
About Happy Money
Happy Money is the only financial company that combines psychology and money to help people live happier lives. Happy Money believes in long-term relationships with people, meeting them at every stage of their financial life, and maximizing their happiness along the way. Happy Money is composed of financial services professionals, research and clinical psychologists, data scientists, neuroscientists, designers, and technology experts, all working together to provide three primary experiences: Joy, Payoff and the Happy Money Score. www.happymoney.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005315/en/
Alison Brod Marketing + Communications
Emily Kjesbo, 212-230-1800
EmilyK@alisonbrodmc.com
Source: Happy Money