LAS VEGAS, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Full House Resorts, Inc. (the “Company”) (NASDAQ:FLL) announced that the Company has filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Once declared effective by the SEC, the shelf registration will provide for the future offer and sale, from time to time in one or more offerings, of up to $125 million in common stock, debt securities, warrants, rights, purchase contracts or units, or any combination of those securities, over a three-year period. Specific terms and prices will be determined at the time of each offering under a separate prospectus supplement, which will be filed with the SEC at the time of the offering.
The Company would expect to use the net proceeds from the registration for general corporate purposes which may include, among other things, working capital, financing of possible acquisitions or business expansion, and refinancing or repayment of existing debt obligations.
The shelf registration statement has been filed with the SEC, but has not yet become effective. Any offers, solicitations of offers to buy, or sales of these securities will only be made once the shelf registration statement has been declared effective by the SEC, including any prospectuses and prospectus supplements. These securities may not be sold, nor may offers to buy be accepted, prior to the time that the registration statement becomes effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration and qualification under the securities law of such jurisdiction.
Forward-looking Statements
This press release may contain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These include statements regarding the effectiveness of the shelf registration statement and the possible future offerings thereunder and the use of proceeds therefrom. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of the Company’s control. Such risks include, without limitation, risks relating to market conditions and pricing of securities generally and for our securities in particular; the impact of our historical and anticipated financial performance on possible future offerings of securities subject to our shelf registration statement; whether or not we will be able to raise capital through the sale of securities or consummate an offering under the shelf registration statement, the terms of an offering and the anticipated use of the proceeds of such offering, any of which could change as a result of market conditions or for other reasons; the availability and cost to us of alternative financing opportunities; our liquidity and working capital requirements; and other risks included in the reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, its Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year and the Company’s other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or revise its forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Lewis Fanger +1 702-221-7800
Source:Full House Resorts, Inc.