LOS ANGELES, Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- B. Riley FBR, Inc. (“B. Riley FBR”), a leading full service investment bank and wholly-owned subsidiary of B. Riley Financial, Inc., announced today that it served as book-running manager and sole underwriter in the Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) initial public offering of 12,500,000 units of Gordon Pointe Acquisition Corp. (the “Company”).
Each unit consisted of one share of Class A common stock and one redeemable warrant. Each warrant is exercisable to purchase one share of the Company’s Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share. The offering was priced at $10.00 per unit, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $125 million. In addition, the Company granted B. Riley FBR a 45-day option to purchase up to 1,875,000 additional units at the initial public offering price to cover over-allotments, if any. The units began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol “GPAQU” on January 25, 2018. Once the securities comprising the units begin separate trading, the Class A common stock and warrants are expected to be listed on NASDAQ under the symbols “GPAQ” and “GPAQW”. The offering is expected to close January 29, 2018.
The public offering is being made only by means of a prospectus. When available, copies of the prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained from: B. Riley FBR, Inc., Attention: Prospectus Department, 1300 14 th Street North, Suite 1400, Arlington, VA 22209, or by telephone at (800) 846-5050 or by email at prospectuses@brileyfbr.com .
A registration statement relating to the securities has been declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on January 24, 2018. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Gordon Pointe Acquisition Corp.
Gordon Pointe Acquisition Corp. is a special purpose acquisition company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business combination with one or more businesses or assets. While the Company may pursue an initial business combination target in any business or industry, it intends to focus its search on businesses in the financial technology sector or related financial services or technology sectors.
About B. Riley FBR, Inc.
B. Riley FBR, Inc. is a leading investment bank which provides corporate finance, research and sales and trading to corporate, institutional and high net worth individual clients. Investment banking services include initial secondary and follow-on offerings, institutional private placements and merger and acquisitions advisory services. The firm is nationally recognized for its highly ranked proprietary equity research.
B. Riley Financial, Inc. (NASDAQ:RILY), through its subsidiaries, provides collaborative financial services and solutions to the capital raising and financial advisory needs of public and private companies and high net worth individuals. The Company operates through several wholly-owned subsidiaries, including B. Riley FBR, Inc. , Wunderlich Securities, Inc ., Great American Group, LLC , B. Riley Capital Management, LLC (which includes B. Riley Asset Management , B. Riley Wealth Management , and Great American Capital Partners, LLC ) and B. Riley Principal Investments, a group that makes proprietary investments in other businesses, such as the acquisition of United Online, Inc.
Media Contact
Joe LoBello
LoBello Communications
516-902-2684
Joe@LoBelloCommunications.com
Source:B. Riley FBR, Inc.