The revolutionary drug delivery leader taps healthcare and pharmaceutical industry rising star, Dr. Vered Gigi, to identify and build strategic partnerships
LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CURE Pharmaceutical (OTCQB: CURR) ("CURE"), an innovative drug delivery and development company, today named Dr. Vered Gigi, Vice President of Strategy and Business Development. Dr. Gigi will oversee CURE’s strategy to deliver sustained growth and diversified revenue.
“We are starting a pivotal year for CURE, focusing on both established and new strategic partnerships that will drive growth,” said Jessica Rousset, Chief Operating Officer of CURE Pharmaceutical. “Dr. Gigi’s relationships and knowledge of the pharma industry further bolsters our management team as we work on 2018 expansion.”
Before joining CURE, Dr. Gigi served as a project leader at The Boston Consulting Group. During her tenure she worked with global biopharma and medtech companies focusing on corporate and network strategy, operations and marketing. Dr. Gigi graduated from Tel-Aviv University in Israel with a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree investigating immunotherapy and stem cell. She then went on to earn her PhD in Immunology from the University of Pennsylvania, focusing her studies on DNA repair mechanisms and genome sequencing.
“The CURE team and the technology offer a clear path to a better and much needed patient experience with medications,” said Dr. Vered Gigi. “I am thrilled to be a part of this group to improve the efficacy and safety of new and existing drugs.”
About CURE Pharmaceutical
CURE Pharmaceutical is a fully integrated drug delivery and development committed to improving drug efficacy, safety and the patient experience through its proprietary drug dosage forms and delivery systems. CURE has an industry leading full-service cGMP manufacturing facility and is a preeminent developer and manufacturer of a patented and proprietary delivery system (CureFilm™), the most advanced oral thin film on the market today. CURE has developed an array of products in cutting-edge delivery platforms and partners with leading pharmaceutical companies. CURE has positioned itself to advance numerous therapeutic categories, including the pharmaceutical cannabis sector with partnerships in the U.S., Canada, Israel and Germany, among other markets. The Company’s mission is to improve people’s lives by redefining how medicines are delivered and experienced.
For more information about CURE Pharmaceutical, please visit its website at www.curepharmaceutical.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005283/en/
for CURE Pharmaceutical
Ashley Ray, (310) 824-9000
aray@olmsteadwilliams.com
Source: CURE Pharmaceutical