DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE:JEC) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved and declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders. A quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share of Jacobs common stock will be paid on March 16, 2018, to shareholders of record on the close of business on February 16, 2018.
About Jacobs Engineering Group
Jacobs leads the global professional services sector delivering solutions for a more connected, sustainable world. With $15 billion in combined revenue and a talent force more than 74,000 strong, Jacobs provides a full spectrum of services including scientific, technical, professional and construction- and program-management for business, industrial, commercial, government and infrastructure sectors. For more information, visit www.jacobs.com , and connect with Jacobs on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook.
Statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. We base these forward-looking statements on management’s current estimates and expectations as well as currently available competitive, financial and economic data. Forward-looking statements, however, are inherently uncertain. There are a variety of factors that could cause business results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2017, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1 - Business, 1A - Risk Factors, 3 - Legal Proceedings, and 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005957/en/
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
Investors
Jonathan Doros, 817-239-3457
jonathan.doros@jacobs.com
Source: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.