MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Symantec Corp. (NASDAQ: SYMC) will webcast its quarterly earnings conference call on Wednesday, January 31, at 5:00 p.m. ET / 2:00 p.m. PT to discuss the results of fiscal third quarter, which ended December 29, 2017.
All interested parties are invited to listen to Symantec's chief executive officer, Greg Clark, and executive vice president and chief financial officer, Nick Noviello, present the quarterly earnings results, highlights and guidance.
Investors will have the opportunity to listen to the conference call over the Internet through Symantec's Investor Relations website at http://investor.symantec.com/investor-relations/events-calendar/ . To listen to the live call, please go to the website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. For telephone access to the conference, call (877) 475-6198 within the United States or (970) 297-2372 from outside the United States. Please call 15 minutes early on January 31 and give the operator conference ID number 1584866.
For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the website within 24 hours of the call.
About Symantec
Symantec Corporation (NASDAQ: SYMC), the world’s leading cyber security company, helps organizations, governments and people secure their most important data wherever it lives. Organizations across the world look to Symantec for strategic, integrated solutions to defend against sophisticated attacks across endpoints, cloud and infrastructure. Likewise, a global community of more than 50 million people and families rely on Symantec’s Norton and LifeLock product suites to protect their digital lives at home and across their devices. Symantec operates one of the world’s largest civilian cyber intelligence networks, allowing it to see and protect against the most advanced threats. For additional information, please visit www.symantec.com or connect with us on Facebook , Twitter , and LinkedIn .
NOTE TO EDITORS: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at http://www.symantec.com/newsroom . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
Symantec, the Symantec logo and the Checkmark logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005117/en/
Symantec Corp.
MEDIA CONTACT:
Matt Nagel, 650-527-8853
matt_nagel@symantec.com
or
INVESTOR CONTACT:
Cynthia Hiponia, 650-527-8020
Cynthia_Hiponia@symantec.com
Source: Symantec Corp.