MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R), a leader in commercial fleet management , dedicated transportation , and supply chain solutions, today announced the appointment of Rajeev Ravindran to the position of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Ravindran is a member of Ryder’s Leadership Team and is responsible for all aspects of Ryder’s IT organization, including the technology, vision, strategy, and execution of Ryder’s key IT platforms and systems.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005198/en/
Ryder Chief Information Officer Rajeev Ravindran (Photo: Business Wire)
“We are excited to welcome Rajeev to the Ryder team,” said Ryder Chairman and CEO Robert Sanchez. “Rajeev joins Ryder in an era when customer-facing technologies, digital capabilities, and the integration of core software systems are critical to the customer experience. Rajeev has driven significant results over the course of his 20 years as a leader in the IT industry, and we are confident that his impressive leadership experience will prove valuable to the Company.”
Prior to this position, Mr. Ravindran was the CIO and Group Vice President at JM Enterprises, where he was with the company since 2003 and held the position for the last six years. With more than two decades of IT leadership experience, he has worked in roles at various companies including Interactive Metronome, Asista.com , and AutoNation. Mr. Ravindran earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical & Computer Engineering from the University of Miami.
Mr. Ravindran replaces Mel Kirk, who has joined Ryder’s Fleet Management Solutions (FMS) team as Chief Technology Officer (CTO). As the FMS CTO, Mr. Kirk will lead Ryder’s innovation and strategy efforts, identifying new technologies that would enhance and improve Ryder’s current product and service offerings. His past leadership roles in FMS Maintenance, process re-engineering, and most recently as CIO, combined with his outstanding leadership qualities, position him well for this role.
About Ryder
Ryder is a FORTUNE 500® commercial fleet management, dedicated transportation, and supply chain solutions company. Ryder’s stock (NYSE:R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the S&P MidCap 400® index. Ryder has been named among FORTUNE’s World’s Most Admired Companies, and has been recognized for its industry-leading practices in third-party logistics, environmentally-friendly fleet and supply chain solutions, and world-class safety and security programs. The Company is a proud member of the American Red Cross Disaster Responder Program, supporting national and local disaster preparedness and response efforts. For more information, visit www.ryder.com , and follow us on our Online Newsroom and social media pages: Facebook , LinkedIn , Twitter , Instagram , and YouTube .
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005198/en/
Ryder System, Inc.
Jennifer Hanlon, 305-500-4547
jennifer_a_hanlon@ryder.com
or
Claudia Panfil, 305-500-3668
claudia_panfil@ryder.com
Source: Ryder System, Inc.