HOLIDAY ISLAND, Ark., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Holiday Island Holdings, Inc. (OTCPink:HIHI) – a development stage company operating in the land development sector of the market – announces that the Beer and Wine license it applied for in December, 2017 on behalf of its Holiday Island Restaurant Acquisition target, the El Mariachi Mexican Restaurant, was approved.
The State of Arkansas schedules the restaurant liquor license to be activated on January 18, 2018 which is right on target from its previous announcement in December, 2017. The sale of beer and wine will drive up gross and net sales which will improve the annual return from 13% to above 15%, making the acquisition pursuit by Holiday Island Holdings even more attractive.
Holiday Island Holdings, Inc. will keep both its shareholders and public completely informed of the entire process as the details continue to develop. The Company’s main goals for 2018 are to finalize a multi-million-dollar fund raise and become a dominant player in local commercial and residential markets at Holiday Island, Arkansas.
About Holiday Island Holdings, Inc. (OTCPink:HIHI) :
Holiday Island Holdings, Inc. is operating its core business in land development in a continued effort to acquire and further develop income producing commercial and residential real estate located in Holiday Island, Arkansas. The company is in the process of further developing a town poised to become the largest community between Northwest Arkansas Metroplex and Branson, Missouri, and become a significant player in the local retail, commercial, and residential markets.
Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by, which such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time the statements are made and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainty and other factors that may cause our results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this press release. This press release should be considered in light of all filings of the Company that are contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov .
HIHI Contact:
Gene Thompson, CEO & Chairman
Phone: (479) 244-6047
Email: sgenethompson@gmail.com
Website: www.holidayislandholdings.com
Source:Holiday Island Holdings, Inc.