PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Rent-A-Center, Inc ., (NASDAQ/NGS:RCII) (RAC) a rent-to-own industry leader, announced today that Ross Beaton was promoted from Senior Director to Vice President of Real Estate.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006451/en/
Rent-A-Center promotes Ross Beaton to Vice President, Real Estate. (Photo: Business Wire)
Beaton is responsible for the direction and overall management of the development department, which includes market planning, geographic information systems, real estate, lease administration, design, construction, and facilities.
Beaton joined Rent-A-Center in 2001 in business development and assumed a leadership role in the development department in 2014 to establish a newly formed market planning function. Under his direction the department implemented data-driven processes to improve real estate strategy and delivered significant annual cost savings through program enhancements.
“Ross has been a valuable asset to the company,” Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Chris Korst said. “With his leadership and sound judgment, I know his department will continue to deliver positive results.”
Prior to working at Rent-A-Center, Beaton led international business development at FedEx Office. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree from the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and earned his Master of Science in Engineering Management from the Catholic University of America.
About Rent-A-Center
A rent-to-own industry leader, Plano, Texas-based, Rent-A-Center, Inc., is focused on improving the quality of life for its customers by providing them the opportunity to obtain ownership of high-quality, durable products under flexible rental purchase agreements with no long-term obligation. For additional information about the Company, please visit our website at www.rentacenter.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006451/en/
Rent-A-Center, Inc.
Gina Hethcock, 972-801-1424
Sr. Manager, Public and Community Relations
Source: Rent-A-Center, Inc.