FREMONT, Calif., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- DPW Holdings, Inc. (NYSE American: DPW) (" DPW " or the " Company "), a diversified holding company, on Thursday, January 4, 2018 filed with the SEC a Form 13-D disclosing it has purchased 228,929 shares of the common stock of WSI Industries, Inc. (NASDAQ: WSCI). This investment represents an equity position of 7.76% of WSCI’s outstanding common stock, making DPW the largest shareholder of WSI. WSI Industries, Inc. is a 68-year-old Minnesota corporation founded in 1950 under the name Washington Scientific Industries. WSI has earned a reputation of being a leading contract manufacturer specializing in the machining of complex, high-precision parts for a wide range of industries, including automotive, avionics and aerospace, energy, recreational powersports vehicles, small engines, marine, bioscience and the defense markets.
“As outlined during our webinar held on December 20, 2017, our investment in WSI Industries is aligned with our growth strategy. We are committed to continue to execute on our plans,” said Milton “Todd” Ault, III, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
The Company stated it would keep the market updated on any developments or substantial changes in its investment in WSI Industries, Inc.
ABOUT DPW HOLDINGS, INC.
Headquartered in Fremont, CA, DPW Holdings, Inc. is a diversified holding company that, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Coolisys Technologies, Inc., is dedicated to providing world-class technology-based solutions where innovation is the main driver for mission-critical applications and lifesaving services. Coolisys’ growth strategy targets core markets that are characterized by “high barriers to entry” and include specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized. Coolisys through its portfolio companies develops and manufactures cutting-edge resonant switching power topologies, specialized complex high-frequency radio frequency (RF) and microwave detector-log video amplifiers, very high-frequency filters and naval power conversion and distribution equipment. Coolisys services the defense, aerospace, medical and industrial sectors and manages four entities including Digital Power Corporation, www.DigiPwr.com , a leading manufacturer based in Northern California, 1-877-634-0982; Digital Power Limited dba Gresham Power Ltd., www.GreshamPower.com , a manufacturer based in Salisbury, UK.; Microphase Corporation, www.MicroPhase.com with its headquarters in Shelton, CT 1- 203-866-8000; and Power-Plus Technical Distributors, www.Power-Plus.com , a wholesale distributor based in Sonora, CA 1-800-963-0066.
Digital Power Lending, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is based in Fremont, CA, and is a California private lending company dedicated to strategically providing capital to small and middle size businesses for an equity interest in addition to loan fees and interest, www.DigitalPowerLending.com . Excelo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a national search firm specializing in fulfilling strategic executive, professional and hi-tech placements for businesses delivering world-class services, www.Excelo.com . DPW Holdings, Inc.’s headquarters is located at 48430 Lakeview Blvd., Fremont, California, 94538; 1-877-634-0982; www.DPWHoldings.com .
For Investor inquiries: IR@DPWHoldings.com or 1-888-753-2235.
Forward-Looking Statements
The foregoing release contains “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding the acquisition and the ability to consummate the acquisition. These forward-looking statements generally include statements that are predictive in nature and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, and include words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “potential,” or similar expressions. Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on current beliefs and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any of them publicly in light of new information or future events. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement as a result of various factors. More information, including potential risk factors, that could affect the Company’s business and financial results are included in the Company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the Company’s Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. All filings are available at www.sec.gov and on the Company’s website at www.DPWHoldings.com .
Source:DPW Holdings, Inc.