BOSTON, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Block & Leviton LLP ( www.blockesq.com ), a securities litigation firm representing investors nationwide, is investigating General Electric (NYSE: GE) after the company disclosed on January 17, 2018 that it would take a $6.2 billion after-tax charge and spend $15 billion to shore up its North America Life & Health reinsurance division, which is purported to have suffered significant losses related to its long-term care insurance division.
GE's CFO, Jamie Miller, said during a post-earnings conference call today that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") is looking into the process that led to GE's January 17, 2018 announcement, as well as the company's revenue recognition and controls for long-term service agreements.
If you have purchased GE securities, and have questions about your legal rights would like to learn more about our investigation, or have information relevant to the investigation, you are encouraged to contact attorney Jake Walker at (617) 398-5600, by e-mail at jake@blockesq.com , or by visiting www.blockesq.com/ge . Block & Leviton is located in Boston, where GE is headquartered.
Confidentiality to whistleblowers or others with information relevant to this investigation is assured.
Block & Leviton LLP is a Boston-based law firm representing investors nationwide. The firm's lawyers have collectively been prosecuting securities cases on behalf of individual and institutional investors for over 50 years and have recovered billions of dollars on their behalf. Block & Leviton's investigations into corporate wrongdoing were recently covered by the New York Times.
This notice may constitute attorney advertising.
CONTACT:
Jake Walker
Block & Leviton LLP
155 Federal Street, Suite 400
Boston, MA 02110
(617) 398-5600
jake@blockesq.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ge-investigated-by-block--leviton-for-securities-fraud-following-sec-investigation--investors-are-encouraged-to-contact-the-firm-300587549.html
SOURCE Block & Leviton LLP