An Impressive Year for the Technology Company Brings Staff Growth and Relocation to Larger Space in 2018
WATERTOWN, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- InCrowd , pioneer of real-time market intelligence to the life sciences and healthcare industries, enjoyed another year of strong growth in 2017, welcoming new staff and clients, while expanding to a larger office space in Watertown, MA.
InCrowd began 2018 by onboarding five new employees. Vince Russo joined as InCrowd’s new Chief Technology Officer. Vince brings the experience of numerous technology leadership roles from early and mid-stage tech companies, including SeaChange International, TeleNav, and Goby Technologies, among others. InCrowd also welcomes Matt Cruz, Director of Client Services, Steve Rand, Senior Product Designer, Tyler Tuttle, Digital Marketing Manager, and Mike Ambrosino, Junior Developer.
InCrowd’s 2017 accomplishments continued with:
New Products —InCrowd launched MicroQual, expediting qualitative interviews with healthcare professions, and Global MicroTracker, delivering nimble, KPI, longitudinal tracking to global pharma brands.
Awards —InCrowd received Most Innovative Services of 2017 from PM360 for Global MicroTracker, was named a Top 50 Pharma Blog, won a Silver Stevie Award for Sales & Customer Service, and co-founders Janet Kosloff and Diane Hayes received the Bronze Stevie Award for Women in Business.
Numbers —InCrowd’s workforce has grown more than 20% in 2017—doubling since the beginning of 2016—requiring the move to an office triple the size of the former Boston headquarters. More than 70 new brands were added to InCrowd’s client list to round out a successful year.
“The past year has been a testament to the dedication of our current team members and we’re looking forward to 2018,” said Janet Kosloff, CEO and co-founder of InCrowd. “The move to our new office has been a great way to celebrate our continued growth and prepare for more innovation in the year to come.”
For more on InCrowd’s growth, visit: www.incrowdnow.com .
About InCrowd
InCrowd pioneered the mobile MicroSurvey methodology, platform, and analytics engine, delivering the top United States life science firms agile, real-time, primary market research. InCrowd’s MicroSurvey platform enables clients to reach—on-demand—targeted specialists and stakeholders easily among its 1.8 million-accessible “Crowd” of healthcare professionals worldwide. InCrowd is offered in 20 languages. Serving more than 200 life science brands, InCrowd expedites market research with a goal to help clients bring medications to patients faster.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005465/en/
InCrowd
Aaron Gouveia, 617-646-3309
agouveia@schneiderpr.com
Source: InCrowd