SAN MATEO, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Adherium (ASX:ADR), a digital health company that improves medication adherence and patient outcomes, today announced Tim Houchin as Vice President of Sales.
“Tim brings to our sales effort a sophisticated understanding of the intersection of wearables and healthcare as well as how to reach consumers and the enterprise,” said Arik Anderson, CEO of Adherium. “He has built a track record of opening up opportunities, closing and scaling tech revenue. The addition of a senior executive of Tim’s caliber is another proof point as we advance our strategy to meet U.S. demand.”
Previously, Mr. Houchin was Head of Enterprise Sales at Pebble Tech, prior to acquisition by Fitbit. Prior to this he was an enterprise sales leader for the eastern U.S. at Lookout. Earlier he served in similar positions at Reconda, DSL.net and Avidia, among others.
“Adherium is advancing an elegant solution that brings physicians and patients together in a way that removes the frustrations they both experience while trying to achieve the promise of today’s therapies and medical knowledge,” said Houchin. “We can remove roadblocks in the care experience, do it at scale, and unlock the ability of physicians and patients to work together in a value-based health economy. It is terrific to be a part of this team.”
About Adherium
Adherium is a provider of digital health solutions and a global leader in connected respiratory medical devices. The Company develops, manufactures and supplies patients, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare providers and contract research organizations with the broadest range of connected medical devices for respiratory medications to address sub-optimal medication use and improve health outcomes in chronic disease. Adherium operates globally from bases in the USA, Europe and Australasia. Learn more at Adherium.com .
Inquiries
Vik Panda, Adherium
Email: vikp@adherium.com
Media
Chris Gale, Greentarget
Phone: 646.695.2883
Email: cgale@greentarget.com
Investors
Leigh Salvo, Gilmartin Group
Phone: 415.937.5404
Email: leigh@gilmartinir.com
Source:Adherium North America Inc