GREENWICH, Conn., Strategic Value Partners, LLC and its affiliates ("SVPGlobal"), a global investment firm focused on distressed and deep value opportunities, today announced the appointment of Dagmar Kent Kershaw, formerly head of the Credit Fund Management team in Europe and Australia at Intermediate Capital Group, to its Advisory Council.
Ms. Kershaw brings to SVPGlobal more than 20 years of experience in investment, asset management and financial services and a wealth of relationships established over that time. At Intermediate Capital Group she led a €9 billion business investing in alternative credit: leveraged finance, direct lending and structured credit. Prior to ICG, Ms. Kent Kershaw spent 10 years at Prudential M&G where she was variously Head of Structured Credit Products and Head of Private Placements. She began her career at Scotia Capital and NatWest Bank. She currently serves as a board member of Aberdeen Smaller Companies Income Trust Plc, the LSE-listed investment trust.
As a member of SVPGlobal's Advisory Council, Ms. Kershaw will work with the firm's team of more than 100 globally, with her primary focus being to further the European franchise. SVPGlobal's Advisory Council will now number seven, including Dr. Bernd Fahrholz, previously Deputy Chairman of the Board of Allianz AG and Chief Executive Officer of Dresdner Bank AG, José Barreiro, formerly Global Head of Corporate and Investment Banking at BBVA, and Flip Huffard, formerly Senior Managing Director of The Blackstone Group.
Victor Khosla, Founder and Chief Investment Officer of SVPGlobal, commented: "Dagmar has a strong record in, and knowledge of, credit investing. Her network across the European investment and financial community will be of great value to us at SVPGlobal."
Ms. Kershaw commented: "I have known SVPGlobal for many years and it's great to have the opportunity to work with such an excellent team at one of the leading distressed debt investors in the world. I look forward to contributing to its continued success."
About SVPGlobal
SVPGlobal was founded in 2001 by Victor Khosla. With approximately $7.1 billion in assets under management, SVPGlobal is a global investment firm with primary offices in Greenwich (CT), London, Frankfurt and Tokyo, focused on distressed and deep value investments. SVPGlobal seeks to create value in its investments through its substantial industry, restructuring and operating experience.
For further information, please contact:
James Madsen / Alex Jones, Greenbrook Communications, +44 207 952 2000
Todd Fogarty, Kekst, +1 212 521 4854
 : releases/svpglobal-appoints-dagmar-kent-kershaw-to-advisory-council-300590119.html
SOURCE Strategic Value Partners, LLC