AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pennybacker Capital, LLC , announced today the appointment of Dave Stahl as Managing Director, Distressed Credit and Special Situations. His primary responsibilities will include overseeing investments within the Special Situations strategy and expanding Pennybacker Capital’s distressed investment capabilities across the firm.
Mr. Stahl joins Pennybacker after a combined ten years at Lone Star Funds/Hudson Advisors where he most recently served as Director of Special Assets, and previously directed both acquisitions and asset management teams focusing on distressed credit. In addition, Mr. Stahl has held senior positions at Transwestern Strategic Partners, Trammell Crow Company, PNL Companies and GE Capital over his distinguished thirty-year real estate career.
Tim Berry, Chief Executive Officer of Pennybacker Capital, commented, “We are very pleased to welcome Dave Stahl to Pennybacker Capital. Dave is an astute value investor and has a proven track record in distressed credit and special situations. I am confident he will be accretive to the Pennybacker culture and will have a tremendous impact on our organization. We anticipate a meaningful correction in real estate markets over the coming years and Dave will bring considerable experience to the team in anticipation of potential distressed opportunities.”
Mr. Stahl added, “I’m looking forward to joining the Pennybacker team and taking a leadership role in sourcing distressed and special situation investments. I’m excited to be part of an organization that is innovative in its utilization of technology, data, and analytics in all facets of real estate investment.”
Mr. Stahl received his Bachelor of Science in Finance from Oklahoma State University.
About Pennybacker Capital
Pennybacker Capital, LLC, is an operationally intensive real estate private equity firm located in Austin, Texas. The firm invests in and operates middle market multifamily, office, and retail assets in sustainable U.S. growth markets. Pennybacker Capital, LLC, seeks to generate favorable risk-adjusted returns for limited partners primarily by targeting investments that possess a margin of economic safety due to an attractive cost basis below historical replacement cost, and the ability to generate cash flow and residual value enhancement potential through active asset management, value-add capital improvements, lease-up, and identifying and creating operating efficiencies.
For further information, please visit www.pennybackercapital.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005545/en/
Pennybacker Capital, LLC
Joanna Barrett, 512-814-2111
jbarrett@pennybackercap.com
Source: Pennybacker Capital, LLC