CONCORD, N.H., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Granite Shore Power LLC, a joint venture of Castleton Commodities International LLC (CCI) and Atlas Holdings LLC, announced today that it had completed its acquisition of select generating assets of Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH) d/b/a Eversource Energy. Granite Shore Power will now own Merrimack Station in Bow, Newington Station in Newington, Schiller Station in Portsmouth as well as combustion turbines in Groveton and Tamworth.
"We're very pleased to acquire the Newington, Merrimack, Schiller, Lost Nation, and White Lake facilities," said Jim Andrews, President of Granite Shore Power and its subsidiaries. "We look forward to not only ensuring a smooth transition of ownership but to having these facilities continue to serve as reliable and cost-efficient sources of power. In the months ahead, we intend to establish strong partnerships with our associates, the communities in which we operate, and those served by these facilities."
About Castleton Commodities International
CCI is a global commodity merchant with an integrated set of operations consisting of the marketing and merchandising of commodities and the ownership, operations and development of commodities-related upstream and infrastructure assets. It owns or provides management services to 6 power generation assets, in addition to those acquired from Eversource, totaling approximately 3,000 MWs of generation capacity across the US and Europe. CCI markets a broad range of physical commodities including electric power, natural gas, natural gas liquids, refined products, crude oil, fuel oil, freight, base metals, and petrochemicals. CCI is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut with offices in Calgary, Canada; Geneva, Switzerland; Houston, Texas; London, United Kingdom; Shanghai, China; Singapore; and Montevideo, Uruguay.
About Atlas Holdings
Headquartered in Greenwich, Connecticut, Atlas and its affiliates own eighteen companies. These companies collectively employ approximately 21,000 associates and operate from more than 220 facilities across the globe. Atlas companies are engaged in a variety of industries, including power generation, aluminum processing, automotive components, building materials and construction, industrial services, paper and packaging and supply chain management. Atlas owns co-generation units at several of its industrial operations, as well as Greenidge Generation, a 106 MW power generation facility that Atlas converted from coal to natural gas and biomass in 2016.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/granite-shore-power-completes-acquisition-of-select-power-generating-assets-of-public-service-company-of-new-hampshire-300581104.html
SOURCE Castleton Commodities International LLC