SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Health Catalyst , a leader in healthcare data analytics, decision support and outcomes improvement, announced that three of healthcare's most respected and well-known thought leaders are joining the company as strategic advisors. Brent James, M.D., Eric Topol, M.D., and Timothy Zoph bring to Health Catalyst many decades' experience leading and inspiring a revolution in quality and the use of technology within world-class healthcare organizations.
Brent James, MD , has been a global leader in bringing quality improvement science and methods to clinical care for over three decades. Dr. James recently left his position as the first Chief Quality Officer of Intermountain Healthcare in Salt Lake City after playing a pivotal role in helping Intermountain to become internationally recognized for outcomes improvement and for establishing a deep culture of quality. As leader of the Intermountain Advanced Training Program, Dr. James has trained a globally diverse group of more than 5,000 senior physician, nursing, and administrative executives in clinical quality improvement science and methodology with proven improvement results, and over 50 "sister" training programs in more than 10 countries. He has been honored with numerous awards for quality and safety in the world of healthcare delivery, including the Deming Cup from the Columbia University School of Business in 2011 and the C. Jackson Grayson Medal, Distinguished Quality Pioneer—American Quality and Productivity Center in 2010.
Eric Topol, MD is Executive Vice President and Professor of Molecular Medicine at The Scripps Research Institute, and the Founder and Director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute in La Jolla, Calif. As a researcher, he has published over 1,100 peer-reviewed articles, with more than 190,000 citations, was elected to the National Academy of Medicine, and is one of the top 10 most cited researchers in medicine. Dr. Topol previously ran the Cleveland Clinic heart program for 14 years, helping it to earn the No. 1 ranking by U.S. News and World Report for over 10 consecutive years. In 2012, he was voted the Most Influential Physician Executive in America by readers of Modern Healthcare. In 2016, Dr. Topol was awarded a $207 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to lead a significant part of the Precision Medicine Initiative, a one million American prospective research program. He is the author of two bestselling books on the future of medicine: The Creative Destruction of Medicine and The Patient Will See You Now.
Timothy Zoph has more than 30 years of healthcare and IT experience with expertise in leadership development, security, strategy, IT consolidation, and facility design and construction. One of the nation's most respected and well-known healthcare CIOs, Zoph served for 21 years as Senior Vice President of Administration and CIO at Northwestern Medicine in Chicago. In that role, he was responsible for technology strategy and delivery of information systems and had oversight for designing, building and activating over $1 billion of new facility projects. Under his leadership at Northwestern Medicine, the organization was named one of the "100 Most Wired Hospitals" 12 times. He was voted "CIO of the Year" twice, by the College of Healthcare Information Management Executives (CHIME) and the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) in 2003, and by the Executives Club of Chicago in Cooperation with The Association of Information Technology Professionals in 2008.
"We are deeply honored that these three healthcare visionaries have elected to become strategic advisors to Health Catalyst and our clients," said Dale Sanders, President of Technology for Health Catalyst. "Much of what we advocate in Health Catalyst can be traced back to the teachings and concepts that Brent James has championed for years. He's known around the world for his tireless advocacy for pragmatic but dramatic improvements in clinical care and cost reduction. Tim Zoph and I worked together as CIO partners for several years at Northwestern. His influence, knowledge, mentorship and respect in the healthcare IT space is without peer. He's also a digital business strategist, beyond healthcare, and grasped the importance of that before anyone in the industry. And Eric Topol is Eric Topol. What more can you say? He's brilliant clinically and scientifically, and you won't find anyone in the world who vocally challenges the status quo of healthcare, for the benefit of clinicians, patients and their rights, more than Eric. He is also a pinnacle of creativity and insight on the use of technology and data to improve healthcare."
Tom Burton, President of Professional Services and Co-Founder of Health Catalyst, commented, "Brent James' commitment to quality improvement and his confidence that we could do more for the industry was one of the key reasons Steve Barlow and I started Health Catalyst almost 10 years ago. Brent has been a friend, mentor and advocate of the company from the very beginning. We are thrilled to have him officially join Health Catalyst to directly help our customers improve outcomes."
"We believe the cumulative effect of the strategic advice of these three industry giants will have a significant, positive impact on the lives of the nearly 100 million patients that our clients serve across the United States," added Dan Burton, CEO of Health Catalyst.
About Health Catalyst
Health Catalyst is a next-generation data, analytics, and decision-support company, committed to being a catalyst for massive, sustained improvements in healthcare outcomes. We are the leaders in a new era of advanced predictive analytics for population health and value-based care with a suite of machine learning-driven solutions, decades of outcomes-improvement expertise, and an unparalleled ability to integrate data from across the healthcare ecosystem. Our proven data warehousing and analytics platform helps improve quality, add efficiency and lower costs in support of more than 85 million patients for organizations ranging from the largest US health system to forward-thinking physician practices. Our technology and professional services can help you keep patients engaged and healthy in their homes and workplaces, and we can help you optimize care delivery to those patients when it becomes necessary. We are grateful to be recognized by Fortune, Gallup, Glassdoor, Modern Healthcare and a host of others as a Best Place to Work in technology and healthcare. Visit www.healthcatalyst.com , and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn and Facebook .
For more information contact:
Todd Stein
Amendola Communications for Health Catalyst
916.346.4213
tstein@acmarketingpr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/healthcare-luminaries-brent-james-eric-topol-and-timothy-zoph-join-health-catalyst-as-strategic-advisors-300582627.html
SOURCE Health Catalyst