NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The National Retail Federation today announced that BJ’s Wholesale Club President and CEO Christopher J. Baldwin has been elected chairman of the NRF Board of Directors . In addition, eight other retailers and retail partners have been elected as new members of the board.
“Chris Baldwin is one of the top thought leaders in retail and is well-positioned to guide NRF through the rapid transformation facing our industry as consumers discover new ways to shop and merchants find new ways to serve their customers,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “NRF and the entire industry will benefit from his experience and insights. The new members of our board are also among the best in the business, and we look forward to their help in addressing the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.”
“I’m honored to help lead NRF during such rapid change in the retail industry,” Baldwin said. “Retail is a crucial driver of our economy and provides opportunities for millions of workers across the United States. I’m very optimistic about the opportunities ahead of our industry and look forward to working with NRF staff and board members during this period of retail transformation.”
Baldwin, who will serve a two-year term, was elected as the board held its annual winter meeting in New York as part of NRF 2018: Retail’s Big Show . He succeeds Macy’s Inc. Executive Chairman Terry Lundgren, who assumed the NRF chairmanship last July after former HSNi CEO Mindy Grossman resigned from the board to head Weight Watchers.
Newly elected members of the board are:
Miki Racine Berardelli, CEO, KIDBOX John Furner, president and CEO, Sam’s Club Jeff Gennette, CEO, Macy’s Inc. Mike George, president and CEO, QVC Group Steve Joyce, CEO, DineEquity Rachel Mushahwar, general manager, U.S.: enterprise, government, SLED and cloud industries, Intel Eva Press, U.S. group lead, consumer packaged goods, government, healthcare and retail, Facebook Brad Weston, CEO, Petco
NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs — 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. NRF.com
PERMALINK
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006217/en/
National Retail Federation
J. Craig Shearman, 855-NRF-PRESS
Press@nrf.com
Source: National Retail Federation