SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Union Bank today announced the appointments of Ann Ormond Hamilton and Peter Bogardus. Hamilton joins as a Managing Director and Fiduciary Management Executive. She reports to Kevin Rogers, a Managing Director who oversees all portfolio managers and trust officers at The Private Bank. Bogardus joins as a Vice President and Private Wealth Advisor, reporting to Lisa Roberts, a Managing Director, and Head of Private Wealth Management for Northern California and the Pacific Northwest. Both new executives are based in San Francisco.
"These appointments will allow us to further grow our client base in San Francisco, an important market in which we continue to invest," said Roberts. "We are excited about the expertise Ann and Peter bring to Union Bank. They join a seasoned and dedicated team of professionals focused on helping clients and their families achieve their financial goals through comprehensive wealth planning."
In her new role, Hamilton is responsible for managing a team of specialists in trust and estate services, wealth planning, and risk management.
Bogardus is responsible for providing high net-worth individuals, families, and non-profit organizations with tailored solutions that address their specific financial goals. He will also work closely with clients to develop strategies that will help them achieve their charitable giving goals.
Hamilton joins Union Bank from Pioneer Wealth Partners, LLC where she most recently served as a director of strategic alliances. She has held trust and estate planning positions at Citi Private Bank, Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch. She holds a B.A. in English Literature from Open University in England.
Prior to Union Bank, Bogardus worked as a Financial Advisor at Wells Fargo and at Morgan Stanley. He has extensive law experience in estate planning, business law, and real estate transactions. For more than seven years, he served as a Municipal Court Judge. Bogardus holds an undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College. He also earned a law degree and a Master of Science from the University of Washington.
About The Private Bank
The Private Bank is an exclusive part of Union Bank dedicated to the financial needs of high net worth individuals, non-profit organizations, business owners, corporate executives and professional service firms. The Private Bank is built around teams of wealth management professionals who deliver customized solutions centered on each client's unique goals and dreams.
About MUFG Union Bank, N.A.
As of September 30, 2017, MUFG Union Bank, N.A. operated 361 branches, comprised primarily of retail banking branches in the West Coast states, along with commercial branches in Texas, Illinois, New York and Georgia, as well as 18 PurePoint Financial Centers and two international offices. We provide a wide spectrum of corporate, commercial and retail banking and wealth management solutions to meet the needs of customers. We also offer an extensive portfolio of value-added solutions for customers, including investment banking, personal and corporate trust, global custody, transaction banking, capital markets, and other services. With assets of $118.6 billion, as of September 30, 2017, MUFG Union Bank has strong capital reserves, credit ratings and capital ratios relative to peer banks. MUFG Union Bank is a proud member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (NYSE: MTU), one of the world's largest financial organizations with total assets of approximately ¥305.5 trillion (JPY) or $2.7 trillion (USD)¹, as of September 30, 2017. The corporate headquarters (principal executive office) for MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, which is the financial holding company and MUFG Union Bank, is in New York City. The main banking office of MUFG Union Bank is in San Francisco, California.
1 Exchange rate of 1 USD=¥112.7 (JPY) as of September 29, 2017
Wealth planning strategies have legal, tax, accounting and other implications. Prior to implementing any wealth planning strategy, clients should consult their legal, tax, accounting, and other advisers.
©2018 MUFG Union Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC.
Union Bank is a registered trademark and brand name of MUFG Union Bank, N.A
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-private-bank-strengthens-san-francisco-team-300583798.html
SOURCE Union Bank