Trump's growing list of Twitter nicknames Getty Images Adam Jeffery | @ajefferyphoto 30 Mins Ago 
President Donald Trump 's fervent use of Twitter has produced a staggering number of catchy nicknames the president has bestowed on many of his political foes, former allies and members of the media. 
Following are some of the subjects of the president's creative wrath. "Sloppy Steve" 
The revelation of interviews with Steve Bannon featured in Michael Wolff's new book, "Fire and Fury," have pitted the president against his one-time confidant and chief strategist. Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty Images "Little Rocket Man" 
Trump has been antagonizing Kim Jong Un over Twitter for months in reference to the North Korean leader's determination to acquire nuclear weapons. Composite Image | Getty Images | Reuters "Al Frankenstien" 
Trump piped up over Twitter to comment on sexual misconduct claims against Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., misspelling Frankenstein in the process. "The Failing New York Times" 
One of the president's favorite targets for his Twitter wrath is The New York Times. Ty Wright | Bloomberg | Getty Images "Liddle' Bob Corker" 
Trump took a jab at Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., after Corker said in "The Failing New York Times" that Trump's leadership style would set the country "on the path to World War III." Tom Williams | CQ Roll Call | Getty Images "Pocahontas" 
There is no love lost between Trump and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. Trump recently referred to Warren as "Pocahontas" during a White House ceremony honoring Native Americans who fought in World War II. Robyn Beck | AFP | Getty Images "Fake Tears Chuck" 
Trump has often blasted his Democratic foes in Congress, including Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, who have consistently taken a stance against the administration's agenda. Tom Williams | CQ Roll Call | Getty Images "Jeff Flake(y)" 
Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., earned the nickname "Flake(y)" after his criticism of the president was caught on a hot mic during an ABC interview. Matt McClain | The Washington Post | Getty Images "Psycho Joe" and "Crazy Mika" 
The duo on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" are often in the crosshairs of Trump's tweets. Jonathan Ernst | Reuters "Crooked Hillary" 
Trump created this nickname during the 2016 presidential race, referring to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's use of email during her tenure at the State Department. The nickname continues to stick and is used often even as his own administration remains the focus of special counsel Bob Mueller's investigation into Russian collusion. Rick Wilking-Pool | Getty Images "Lyin' Ted" 
Presidential candidate Trump attacked his closest opponent, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, during the GOP primaries. The two have often been at odds since Trump took office. Al Drago | CQ Roll Call | Getty Images "Crazy Bernie" 
The challenge by Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., for the Democratic nomination provided some amusement for the Republican candidate. Getty Images "Little Marco" 
The president often referred to his GOP primary opponent Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida as "Little Marco." Robyn Beck | AFP | Getty Images "Low energy Jeb" 
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush was often the target of Trump's tweets when the two candidates were competing in the GOP primaries. 