Expert Growth Leader Will Help Guide Sales and Marketing Strategy
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- IronClad Encryption Corporation (OTCQB: IRNC) today announced that Bill Sanstrom, Vice President of Global Business Development for Halliburton Company (NYSE: HAL), has joined its Advisory Board effective immediately. Mr. Sanstrom has spent his entire career at Halliburton in operational, technical, marketing and business development roles working on high-impact initiatives.
"I have known Bill for 10 years and have admired his ability to disrupt markets," said JD McGraw, president and vice chairman of IronClad. "He has the ability to quickly adapt to new markets and gain the insights required to close not just million-dollar deals, but billion-dollar ones as well. His involvement will have a very positive impact on IronClad’s present activities and our future growth."
Previously, Mr. Sanstrom was Vice President of international oil accounts Eni and Repsol at Halliburton, both of which grew substantially under his leadership.
Before that, he served as Vice President of Global Technical Solutions and Marketing for Halliburton. In that role, he spearheaded a strategic global branding strategy that consolidated the product and service offerings from nine different Halliburton companies into three multi-disciplinary solution groups that continue to focus on deep water, mature oil fields and unconventional oil extraction.
Prior to that, Mr. Sanstrom was Global Business Development and Marketing Manager at Halliburton-owned Sperry Drilling Services. Earlier, he was System Development Director and then Director of Global Operations for Halliburton-owned Landmark Graphics, the largest commercial software provider serving the oil and gas industry.
Before becoming a sales and marketing leader, Mr. Sanstrom was a systems architect in Halliburton's Research and Development department where he supported and led real-time technology development and the integration of acquired companies.
Mr. Sanstrom holds multiple patents and has published numerous papers in various industry journals. He holds a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines.
"Software has completely changed the way the oil and gas industry operates. On one hand, we've been able to achieve unprecedented levels of operational efficiency. On the other hand, the oil and gas industry has, like many other enterprises, lagged behind what are considered cybersecurity best-practices and have therefore opened the door to cyberattacks impacting our business," said Mr. Sanstrom. "My experience confirms that IronClad’s disruptive cybersecurity products will fortify the security measures organizations already have in place, which is critical in any industry. I am excited to help IronClad’s customers achieve best-in-class cybersecurity as an advisor for IronClad’s focused go-to-market strategy for its secure phone and networking products."
About IronClad Encryption Products:
In January 2018, IronClad Encryption announced Black ICE, a family of secure gateway products it is developing with technology product design and development firm Black Pearl Engineering Management that will secure the programmable logic controllers (PLCs) used in industrial control and manufacturing systems. That product line is desperately needed given the active cyberattacks and cyberterrorism campaigns directed at U.S. infrastructure, including oil rigs and pipelines, by nation state sponsors.
Last year, IronClad Encryption announced that it is co-developing an ultra-secure, ultra-rugged mobile phone with IoT embedded design firm PollenTech OY that will be manufactured by rugged mobile phone manufacturer Sonim Technologies . The company also introduced ICEMicro, which is an encryption-based software product that inherently secures communications among software programs, devices, or a combination of software programs and devices. ICEMicro can also be used across disparate container orchestration platforms, Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) platforms, transport layer security protocols, data centers, clouds and hybrid implementations.
About IronClad Encryption Corporation:
IronClad Encryption Corporation is a next-generation cyber defense company that secures digital assets and communications across a wide range of industries and technologies. IronClad Encryption-powered solutions utilize our patented Dynamic Encryption and Perpetual Authentication technologies to make all known key-based encryption technologies virtually impossible to compromise. Dynamic Encryption Technology eliminates vulnerabilities caused by exposure of any single encryption key by continuously changing encryption keys and keeping the keys synchronized in a fault-tolerant manner. Perpetual Authentication Technology uses multiple virtual channels for encryption so that in the event one channel is compromised, the other channels maintain encryption integrity. Together, these technologies not only eliminate the single point of failure problem created by having keys exposed through brute force, side channel, or other types of attack, but do so with very low latency and system performance overhead. Developers, MSPs, MSSPs, and IT organizations can now easily and effectively integrate ultra-secure authentication and encryption measures across essentially all mediums. This includes the latest processors and operating systems, legacy hardware and software, within or between networks, and on compartmentalized data or entire databases. At rest or in-motion, IronClad Encryption ensures data remains safe, secure and uncompromised.
Visit IronClad Encryption at www.IronCladencryption.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The information included in this release should not be used for investment purposes because statements of intent or projections of financial performance are based on assumptions that can change. In addition, events or circumstances may arise that we can neither anticipate nor control. Therefore, any statements of intent or predictions of financial performance are valid only on the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005355/en/
Media Contact:
IronClad Encryption Corporation
Lisa Morgan, 928-284-6849
Lisa.morgan@ironcladencryption.com
or
Investor Contact:
Halliburton Investor Relations & Communications
Tom Carey or Geralyn DeBusk, 972-458-8000
Source: IronClad Encryption Corporation