MIAMI, January 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Vapor Group, Inc. (OTC Pink: VPOR), ("Company" or "Vapor Group"), announced today that its new wholly-owned subsidiary, CryptoTechCurrency, Inc. ( http://www.cryptotechcurrency.com ), a cryptocurrency mining company, has purchased 5 additional mining machines with state-of-the-art flexibility to increase profitability.
Yaniv Nahon, President, stated, "As we had already announced our initial purchase of 25 'high hash rate' cryptomining servers are in the process of going into service. In the interest of expanding our capabilities immensely, we have purchased five cryptomining dedicated hardware "'igs', each with 8 Nvidia Model Geforce GTX 1070TI video cards, that are capable of mining 99% of all existing cryptocurrencies in existence on a 24/7 basis. Important, these rigs give us the ability to convert to whatever cryptocurrency on any given day is the most profitable, greatly increasing our flexibility and the potential profitability of this operation. We believe in today's volatile cryptocurrency environment, it is smart to buy such rigs that are not dedicated to one or a few specific cryptocurrencies."
About Vapor Group, Inc.
Vapor Group, http://www.vaporgroup.com , historically has been focused on the acquisition and development of commercially viable intellectual property and proprietary products. Vapor Group, is a publicly traded OTC company, trading under the symbol, VPOR.
CryptoTechCurrency, Inc., which specializes in cryptocurrency mining, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vapor Group and a new addition to its family of businesses. 'Cryptomining' is the fundamental methodology of earning and/or creating digital currencies such as Bitcoin, Litecoin and others, through the use of dedicated, specialized mining machines that perform complex mathematical functions to mine a cryptocurrency and also process cryptocurrency transactions. These machines operate 24-hours per day, 7-days per week within mining-dedicated, temperature-controlled server centers that provide complete end-to-end technical and other support for 'peace of mind' and uninterrupted operation.
The Company's subsidiary, Total Vapor, Inc. is the worldwide distributor of the revolutionary, hand-held automatic Easy Grinder™. For more information or to place an order, visit http://www.easygrinder.com , visit Amazon.com at http://a.co/5HOPUkE , email sales@easygrinder.com or call us at 844-420-EASY (3279). Easy Grinder™ is shippable to Canada.
Vapor Group also owns Simple Cork, Inc., http://www.simplecork.com , the developer of a new, multi-nationally patented combination wine bottle cork/opener being prepared for market entry in 2018, and Royal CBD, Inc., a marketer of hemp-based CBD oil products.
If you have specific questions about the Company, please email us at investors@vaporgroup.com .
Safe Harbor Statement:
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements include any that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "estimate", "project", "intend", "forecast", "anticipate", "plan", "planning", "expect", "believe", "likely", "should", "could", "would", "may" or similar words or expressions. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results and financial position to differ materially from those in such statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, including those relating to the Company's ability to grow. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted and any reported should not be considered an indication of future performance. Potential risks and uncertainties include the Company's operating history and resources, economic, competitive, and equity market conditions.
CONTACT:
Vapor Group, Inc.
+1-954-883-9525
SOURCE Vapor Group, Inc.