Xiologix is pleased to announce and welcome respected, 20-year IT Veteran, James J. Pethigal as a Sr. Systems Engineer
TUALATIN, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Xiologix is pleased to announce that James J. Pethigal will be serving as a Sr. Systems Engineer. This represents another strategic expansion of Xiologix’ growing team of IT experts. “ I’ve worked with James for several years and know him to be one of the top Citrix Engineers in the Pacific Northwest,” said Sid Herron, Sr. Account Manager at Xiologix. “He will bring a great deal of value to our Citrix clients.”
Pethigal brings a highly valued set of skills to Xiologix. He has served in IT leadership roles and brings with him vast experience in multi-platform environments, networking design and implementation, Windows Server platforms, hypervisor and cloud infrastructure, Unix/Linux, enterprise security, backup/disaster recovery, compliance and more. Greg Still, Managing Partner at Xiologix adds, “James has a proven track record of success in enterprise datacenter implementation and support. His industry knowledge and experience will be of great benefit to our growing client base and to our team.”
In addition to being a well-respected industry expert, Pethigal is also active as a volunteer in his community. Xiologix encourages and supports all employees to be engaged citizens in areas that are of interest and importance to them. “I am quite happy to be joining Xiologix,” said James after accepting the position. “I hear great things about the people and culture.”
About Xiologix
Xiologix is a leading provider of innovative information technology (IT) solutions serving corporate and public-sector customers. We provide technology solutions - including hardware, software, and services - to help customers resolve their most complicated IT needs. Our expertise includes enterprise architecture and high availability, infrastructure optimization, storage and resource management, identity management and business continuity. Xiologix is headquartered in Portland, OR area with sales and engineering offices throughout the western region. For additional information call (888) 492-6843 or visit https://www.xiologix.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005005/en/
Xiologix
Dawn Woodward, 888-492-6843
Marketing Manager
Source: Xiologix