Connected commerce innovator expands leadership team with governance, compliance expert
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sionic Mobile , a cloud-based connected commerce provider, today announced Don Westcott has been named Chief Compliance Officer. With more than 20 years of experience, he will oversee and develop enterprise governance, risk, and regulatory compliance strategies, establish corporate standards ensuring programs are effective and efficient, as well as instituting growth strategies while identifying and remediating risk.
Westcott joins Sionic Mobile from electronic commerce and payment solutions provider, First Data Corporation, where he was Director of Regulatory Compliance. In this role he managed regulatory compliance affairs for new, high-risk, and complex market segments performing risk assessments and critical process monitoring as well as developing and executing regulatory programs. Additionally, Westcott has held leadership positions in highly regulated environments including casinos, most recently Caesars.
“This is an exciting time in the payments industry and Sionic Mobile is leading the charge, shaping the industry with their innovative approach to connected commerce,” said Westcott. “I am proud to join such a talented team of entrepreneurs that continue to push the industry forward. Sionic Mobile offers consumers and merchants an evolutionary experience with its Mobile Rewards Marketplace ® and connected car technology. While at First Data I had firsthand experience overseeing complex and emerging markets and this experience will prove vital in ensuring Sionic Mobile’s future success.”
While at First Data, Westcott developed, enhanced, and administered companywide policies, programs, and controls in a variety of areas including compliance oversight and sales order to product implementation. He earned his Associates of Applied Science in Paralegal Studies from Kaplan University.
Ronald Herman, CEO of Sionic Mobile, said, “Don’s extensive industry experience and excellent track record make him a valuable addition to the Sionic Mobile executive team. We are pleased to welcome him to Sionic Mobile and know he will play a pivotal role in this next phase of the company’s evolution.”
About Sionic Mobile
Midtown Atlanta-based Sionic Mobile, a cloud-based connected commerce company, reaches millions of consumers through their vehicle dashboards and through their favorite mobile apps. The Company operates the Mobile Rewards Marketplace ® - a digital loyalty co-op where brick-and-mortar merchants deliver offers, perks and rewards to consumers and accept their loyalty currency as cash at the point of sale. App partners include top-tier loyalty programs in automotive, travel, mobile phone service and other channels. The award-winning ION Commerce Engine ® (ICE) and Company-owned, GeoSense ® iBeacon network drives more frequent app usage for partners and increases foot traffic and incremental new revenue to merchants. Merchants pay a small marketing fee when customers pay with their mobile apps. Visit www.SionicMobile.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005793/en/
For Sionic Mobile
Anna Stanley, 678-781-3072
anna@williammills.com
Source: Sionic Mobile