January 23, 2018 / 7:53 AM / Updated an hour ago LIVE MARKETS-What you need to know Reuters Staff 4 Min Read Jan 23 (Reuters) - Welcome to the home for real time coverage of European equity markets brought to you by Reuters stocks reporters and anchored today by Julien Ponthus. Reach him on Messenger to share your thoughts on market moves: julien.ponthus.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW (0749 GMT) European shares are set for a strong start in the wake of the rally, which took place in Asia and on Wall Street following the deal to end the U.S. government shutdown. After yesterday’s M&A-fuelled session, there is little corporate news at this stage but faith in “global synchronised growth” should continue lifting indexes to new highs. Among possible movers is Sky: Britain's competition regulator said Rupert Murdoch buying all of Sky was not in the public interest because it would give the media mogul too much influence. Also EasyJet said recent reductions in capacity by competitors in the industry were contributing to a positive trading environment, as revenues improved in the first quarter. Still in the industry, Wizz Air is keen on Alitalia but only for short, medium-haul routes. Here are a few other interesting headlines: Netflix crosses $100 bln market capitalization as subscribers surge Trump deals blow to solar makers; forcing industry to look elsewhere for growth Sweden's Com Hem Q4 underlying EBITDA just beats forecasts SGS expects sales growth in 2018 after FY profit rises Niki Lauda to buy airline he founded, say administrators Carrefour CEO steps up digital push, inks deal in China Paragon's Q1 lending rises as buy-to-let focus pays off (Julien Ponthus) TRUMP'S SOLAR TARIFFS TO HIT EUROPE TOO (0734 GMT) U.S. President Donald Trump announced late yesterday tariffs on some imported solar cells, boosting shares in U.S. solar companies but hitting rivals in Asia, such as Korean solar panel manufacturers. There could be victims in Europe too, such as Germany's SMA Solar Technology , which develops photovoltaic system technology. "This could bother SMA's already difficult US business furthermore. SMA hosts CMD Friday maybe giving some insight soon," a Frankfurt-based trader said. Another trader said also shares in Solarworld, REC Silicon REC.OL>, Solar A/S , Soitec and Solar-Fabrik could be under pressure following Trump's move. (Danilo Masoni) FUTURES POINT TO A STRONG START FOR EUROPEAN BOURSES (0706 GMT) There seems to be little doubt as to whether European shares will follow the rally in Asia and on Wall Street which followed the deal to end the U.S. government shutdown: (Julien Ponthus) AN ECB CHEAT SHEET: FROM "VERY DOVISH" TO "VERY HAWKISH" (0650 GMT) As Thursday's ECB meeting quickly approaches, ING has drafted a "cheat sheet" to help investors read through Mario Draghi's carefully scripted language and decide whether his message is "dovish" or "hawkish". Here it is: (Julien Ponthus)