 42 PM / in 8 minutes UPDATE 1-U.S. tax law, trucking demand lift Knight-Swift quarterly profit Reuters Staff 3 Min Read 
(New throughout, adds details from earnings report, CEO comments) 
Jan 30 (Reuters) - Trucking company Knight-Swift Transportation Holdings Inc on Tuesday posted a higher quarterly profit that beat Wall Street forecasts, boosted by changes to the U.S. tax law and strong freight demand. 
But North America’s largest full truckload carrier missed expectations on revenue. 
“The freight environment continued to strengthen in the fourth quarter and showed more staying power than is typical into late December and January,” Chief Executive Officer Dave Jackson said in a statement accompanying the results. 
The company said driver recruitment and retention remained a persistent challenge, as it is for other major U.S. truckload carriers as they compete to hire qualified drivers at a time of low unemployment. 
“We continue to face perhaps the most difficult driver environment we have seen, and we expect these conditions will persist,” he said. 
The Phoenix, Arizona-based company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $447.56 million, or $2.50 per diluted share, up from $22.16 million, or 27 cents per diluted share in the year-ago period. 
Adjusting for one-time items, Knight-Swift reported earnings per share of 52 cents. Wall Street analysts expected 41 cents. 
Revenue rose to $1.36 billion from $289.1 million a year ago, but Wall Street analysts on average expected revenue of $1.37 billion. 
The company’s quarterly results include a $364.2 million income tax benefit resulting from changes to U.S. tax law. 
Jackson also said capacity for third-party carriers has started to tighten due to a U.S. regulation that trucking companies use electronic logging devices, known as ELDs, to track the number of hours drivers are behind the wheel. 
Jackson said the company expects “to achieve our synergy goals” following last year’s merger of Swift Transportation Co and Knight Transportation Inc, a stock-swap deal that created a company with a present market value of more than $8.31 billion. (Reporting by Eric M. Johnson in Seattle; Editing by David Gregorio)