You don't have to dine out to enjoy restaurant-quality food. With the right ingredients and a little bit of effort, you can replicate your favorite meals under your own roof. 
Considering the average household spends $3,008 per year on restaurant meals and takeout, chances are cooking at home will help your bottom line. Instead of heading out for Italian, try making this potato gnocchi recipe provided by Tasty .
Homemade potato gnocchi Ingredients for 2 servings: 
4 medium russet potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 egg 1 ½ cups flour, extra to dust 2 tablespoons butter, for pan frying fresh sage, for pan frying Preparation: 
1. Add potatoes to a large pot of cool water. Bring the pot of water to a boil and boil potatoes for 20-25 minutes, or until a fork can easily poke through it.
2. Drain potatoes and allow to cool.
3. Using a peeler or your fingers, remove the skin of potatoes.
4. In a medium bowl, mash the potatoes until all lumps are gone.
5. Add salt and pepper to mashed potatoes and mix well.
6. Make a ring of the potatoes and crack an egg in the center.
7. Whisk the egg and lightly mix into the potatoes until evenly distributed.
8. Knead the dough, adding flour along the way until the dough loses stickiness and becomes a more solid mound.
9. Slice dough into 4 parts, take one part and roll it out into a long rope, about a 1-inch (2 ½ cm) wide.
10. Slice rope into ½-inch (1 cm) squares and set aside.
11. Using an overturned fork, you can slide each gnocchi square over the fork prongs so they become serrated in a corkscrew shape.
12. Another way to shape the gnocchi is to simply press your finger into the gnocchi to form a small basin.
13. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the gnocchi. Boil until they float to the top, then remove.
14. In a pan over medium heat, melt butter and add sage.
15. Add gnocchi to pan with sage butter, toss until lightly golden on the outside.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is a minority investor in BuzzFeed, the parent company of Tasty. 
Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook ! 
Don't miss: Here's how to cook a delicious steak for cheap 
show chapters Save money by making your own Indian food like this chicken tikka masala      6:57 AM ET Thu, 28 Dec 2017 | 01:40