IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Opus Bank (“Opus”) (NASDAQ: OPB) and the Opus Community Foundation (the “Foundation”) announced today that Katie Ellis has been appointed to the Foundation’s Board of Directors. Ms. Ellis joined Opus in December 2010 as Executive Director, Opus Community Foundation and will continue to serve in that role.
Stephen H. Gordon, Chief Executive Officer and President of Opus Bank, and Chairman of the Opus Community Foundation, stated, “We are very proud to announce Katie’s appointment to the Opus Community Foundation Board. Katie joined Opus shortly after its inception to launch and lead the Foundation. More than seven years later, Katie continues to inspire, unite, and mobilize our team members through her consistently passionate leadership.” Mr. Gordon added, “In September of 2017, Opus Bank was recognized as one of the 50 most civic-minded companies in Orange County based on the effectiveness of the Bank’s community engagement programs. This remarkable achievement also serves as a measure of Katie’s success integrating community service into Opus’ culture from day one.” Mr. Gordon concluded, “Katie’s appointment to the Foundation’s Board is a well-deserved recognition of her thoughtful leadership of the Foundation, unwavering commitment to and care for the communities we serve, and significant and positive impact on the culture of Opus.”
Ms. Ellis joined Opus from the Hoag Hospital Foundation, where from 2007 to 2010 she served as the Manager of Major Gifts. Ms. Ellis earned a Bachelor of Arts in Communication from the University of California, Los Angeles and a Master of Business Administration from the Paul Merage School of Business at the University of California, Irvine. In 2013, Ms. Ellis was recognized by the OC Metro in its annual “40 Under 40” feature as one of the top business leaders and entrepreneurs in Orange County. Ms. Ellis currently serves as the Vice President of the Orange County Funders Roundtable and Vice President of the Orange County Community Relations Council.
The Opus Community Foundation is a private 501(c)(3) organization established concurrently with the founding of Opus Bank to encourage and support community philanthropy. Its mission is to have an impact on the lives of children and families living and working in Opus Bank’s service areas by stimulating economic change, promoting reinvestment, inspiring philanthropy, and strengthening communities through grant awards, matching gift donations, and volunteer service.
Since its inception in September 2010, the Opus Community Foundation has awarded 765 grants to 408 nonprofits throughout the western region. Additionally, Opus team members, together with the Opus Community Foundation through its matching gifts program, have provided financial support to 354 charities nationally. The Foundation targets its philanthropic efforts in the areas of affordable housing; community development, community health services; domestic violence prevention and child safety; education, including afterschool mentoring and tutoring, arts education for youth, early childhood development and school readiness, and financial literacy education; safety net services, and workforce development and job skills training.
For additional information about the Opus Community Foundation, please visit the Foundation’s website: www.opuscf.org .
Connect with Opus Bank
OpusBank.com │ LinkedIn │ Twitter │ YouTube │ Facebook
About Opus Bank
Opus Bank is an FDIC insured California-chartered commercial bank with $7.5 billion of total assets, $5.2 billion of total loans, and $5.9 billion in total deposits as of December 31, 2017. Opus Bank provides superior ideas and solutions, and banking products to its clients through its Retail Bank, Commercial Bank, and Merchant Bank. Opus Bank offers a suite of treasury and cash management and depository solutions and a wide range of loan products, including commercial, healthcare, media and entertainment, corporate finance, multifamily residential, commercial real estate and structured finance, and is an SBA preferred lender. Opus Bank offers commercial escrow services and facilitates 1031 Exchange transactions through its Escrow and Exchange divisions. Opus Bank provides clients with financial and advisory services related to raising equity capital, targeted acquisition and divestiture strategies, general mergers and acquisitions, debt and equity financing, balance sheet restructuring, valuation, strategy and performance improvement through its Merchant Banking division and its broker-dealer subsidiary, Opus Financial Partners, LLC, Member FINRA/SIPC. Opus Bank’s alternative asset IRA custodian subsidiary has over $16 billion of custodial assets and over 50,000 client accounts, which are comprised of self-directed investors, financial institutions, capital raisers and financial advisors. Opus Bank operates 50 banking offices, including 31 in California, 16 in the Seattle/Puget Sound region in Washington, two in the Phoenix metropolitan area of Arizona and one in Portland, Oregon. Opus Bank is an Equal Housing Lender. For additional information about Opus Bank, please visit our website: www.opusbank.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005177/en/
Opus Bank
Mr. Jeff L. Leonard
SVP, Dir. of Corporate Strategy/Communications
(949) 251-8146
Source: Opus Bank