Pictures | Tue Jan 30, 2018 | 7:50am EST Editors Choice Pictures 
Ernestina Lebron looks at her refrigerator while standing in her home, after Hurricane Maria hit the island in September 2017, in Maunabo,   Sunday, January 28, 2018 Ernestina Lebron looks at her refrigerator while standing in her home, after Hurricane Maria hit the island in September 2017, in Maunabo, Puerto Rico. REUTERS/Alvin Baez Close 1 / 24 
Supporters of Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) coalition gesture through a bus window ahead of his planned swearing-in ceremony as the President of the People's Assembly in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Baz... more Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Supporters of Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) coalition gesture through a bus window ahead of his planned swearing-in ceremony as the President of the People's Assembly in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Baz Ratner Close 
A flock of starlings fills the dusk sky over Rome, Italy. REUTERS/Tony Gentile Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A flock of starlings fills the dusk sky over Rome, Italy. REUTERS/Tony Gentile Close 3 / 24 
A demonstrator confronts riot police during a rally in defense of the nationalization of lithium reserves in the country, in Santiago, Chile. REUTERS/Pablo Sanhueza Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A demonstrator confronts riot police during a rally in defense of the nationalization of lithium reserves in the country, in Santiago, Chile. REUTERS/Pablo Sanhueza Close 4 / 24 
A view shows peniche houseboats moored and the Eiffel Tower along the flooded banks of the River Seine after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country in Paris, France. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A view shows peniche houseboats moored and the Eiffel Tower along the flooded banks of the River Seine after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country in Paris, France. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Close 
Destroyed building from previous clashes are seen in Mosul, Iraq. REUTERS/Khalid Al-Mousily Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 Destroyed building from previous clashes are seen in Mosul, Iraq. REUTERS/Khalid Al-Mousily Close 6 / 24 
Earthquake victims embrace as they take part in a farewell ceremony to their homes in a building in Pacifico 455, damaged during the September 2017 earthquake in Mexico City, Mexico. REUTERS/Carlos Jasso Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Earthquake victims embrace as they take part in a farewell ceremony to their homes in a building in Pacifico 455, damaged during the September 2017 earthquake in Mexico City, Mexico. REUTERS/Carlos Jasso Close 7 / 24 
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady puts on a hat during Super Bowl LII Opening Night. Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Sports Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady puts on a hat during Super Bowl LII Opening Night. Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Sports Close 8 / 24 
Prototypes for President Trump's border wall with Mexico are seen behind the current border fence in   Prototypes for President Trump's border wall with Mexico are seen behind the current border fence in   9 / 24 
David Beckham, wearing a league scarf, salutes a section of the crowd at this official announcement for Miami's MLS expansion team in Miami, Florida. REUTERS/Andrew Innerarity Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 David Beckham, wearing a league scarf, salutes a section of the crowd at this official announcement for Miami's MLS expansion team in Miami, Florida. REUTERS/Andrew Innerarity Close 10 / 24 
A honour guard stands at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by the Kremlin wall in Moscow, Russia. REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 A honour guard stands at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by the Kremlin wall in Moscow, Russia. REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Close 11 / 24 
Members of a historical military club take part in a historical reenactment performance of the battle on January 29, 1918 when several hundred students died while defending the Ukrainian capital from the Bolsheviks, in Kiev, Ukraine. REUTERS/Gleb... more Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 Members of a historical military club take part in a historical reenactment performance of the battle on January 29, 1918 when several hundred students died while defending the Ukrainian capital from the Bolsheviks, in Kiev, Ukraine. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich Close 12 / 24 
Afghan Presidential palace employees prepare for Indonesian President Joko Widodo to get off the plane in Kabul airport in Kabul, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Massoud Hossaini/Pool Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 Afghan Presidential palace employees prepare for Indonesian President Joko Widodo to get off the plane in Kabul airport in Kabul, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Massoud Hossaini/Pool Close 13 / 24 
Supporters of Amal movement hold the party's flag near burning tires in Beirut, Lebanon. REUTERS/Mohamed Azakir Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 Supporters of Amal movement hold the party's flag near burning tires in Beirut, Lebanon. REUTERS/Mohamed Azakir Close 14 / 24 
Britain's Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, visits a bandy ice rink during her official visit with Prince William in Stockholm, Sweden. REUTERS/Hannah McKay Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Britain's Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, visits a bandy ice rink during her official visit with Prince William in Stockholm, Sweden. REUTERS/Hannah McKay Close 15 / 24 
A taxi driver takes part in a demonstration against what taxi drivers say is unfair competition from new car sharing companies such as Uber, in San Salvador, El Salvador. REUTERS/Jose Cabezas Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A taxi driver takes part in a demonstration against what taxi drivers say is unfair competition from new car sharing companies such as Uber, in San Salvador, El Salvador. REUTERS/Jose Cabezas Close 16 / 24 
A walkway surrounds a 49-feet tall Ficus rubiginosa tree, nicknamed "Rubi" on the top floor of the new Amazon Spheres, seen during opening event at Amazon's Seattle headquarters in Seattle, Washington. REUTERS/Lindsey Wasson Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A walkway surrounds a 49-feet tall Ficus rubiginosa tree, nicknamed "Rubi" on the top floor of the new Amazon Spheres, seen during opening event at Amazon's Seattle headquarters in Seattle, Washington. REUTERS/Lindsey Wasson Close 17 / 24 
A Palestinian farmer throws wheat seeds during a tour by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), near the border with Israel, in the southern Gaza Strip. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A Palestinian farmer throws wheat seeds during a tour by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), near the border with Israel, in the southern Gaza Strip. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Close 18 / 24 
A Taiwanese M60A3 tank fires off blank shells during a military drill in Hualien, eastern Taiwan. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A Taiwanese M60A3 tank fires off blank shells during a military drill in Hualien, eastern Taiwan. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Close 19 / 24 
Russia's Chief Rabbi Berel Lazar lights candles during the stone-laying ceremony for the memorial to members of the resistance at Nazi concentration camps during World War Two, at the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre as part of the International... more Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 Russia's Chief Rabbi Berel Lazar lights candles during the stone-laying ceremony for the memorial to members of the resistance at Nazi concentration camps during World War Two, at the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre as part of the   Moscow, Russia. REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Close 20 / 24 
Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro throws the ball during a softball game with ministers and military high command members at Fuerte Tiuna military base, in Caracas, Venezuela. REUTERS/Marco Bello Reuters / Sunday, January 28, 2018 Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro throws the ball during a softball game with ministers and military high command members at Fuerte Tiuna military base, in Caracas, Venezuela. REUTERS/Marco Bello Close 21 / 24 
A reveller dresses in a leaf costume during carnival celebrations in Ituren, northern Spain, alongside bell-wearing dancers known as Joaldunak who perform a ritual dance to ward off evil spirits and awaken the coming spring. REUTERS/Vincent West Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A reveller dresses in a leaf costume during carnival celebrations in Ituren, northern Spain, alongside bell-wearing dancers known as Joaldunak who perform a ritual dance to ward off evil spirits and awaken the coming spring. REUTERS/Vincent West Close 22 / 24 
Cast member Chadwick Boseman poses at the premiere of Black Panther in Los Angeles. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Cast member Chadwick Boseman poses at the premiere of Black Panther in Los Angeles. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Close 23 / 24 
Afghan security forces stand near the Marshal Fahim military academy after a series of explosions   Sunday, January 28, 2018 Afghan security forces stand near the Marshal Fahim military academy after a series of explosions  