HOLYOKE, Mass., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- A seasoned Chief Information Officer for some of the world's largest healthcare payor organizations, Terry Ramey has joined Holyoke, Massachusetts-based healthcare consultancy VertitechIT as an Executive Project Officer (EPO). Ramey will lead engagements with large healthcare systems as the company continues to expand operations throughout the east coast and across the country. He previously held senior technology titles at PerformRX (a subsidiary of AmeriHealth Caritas), Penn Mutual Life Insurance, CIGNA Health Services, and Dendrite International.
As a nationally recognized healthcare technology executive, Terry says he was looking to make an impact on the provider side of the industry. "At CIGNA, Penn Mutual, and other major payor organizations, my responsibilities were to leverage technology to positively affect the bottom line," says Ramey. "At VertitechIT, I have the opportunity to help transform hospital IT departments with a direct impact on patient care. It's not often that an IT executive gets to do that."
VertitechIT CEO Michael Feld agrees. "Our work at work at major health systems goes far beyond designing and implementing cloud strategies, overhauling infrastructure, and streamlining operations. As an EPO, Terry will counsel clients on the IT initiatives that can literally change the way doctors do their jobs."
Working at the executive level within a healthcare organization, EPOs oversee a collaborative Office of the CTO (oCTO), implementing VertitechIT's proprietary LeverageIT© process. Working side by side with senior internal managers, the oCTO refines strategic directives and implements tactical solutions that make organizations more profitable and efficient.
About VertitechIT: To label us "Healthcare IT Consultants" would be like calling a laptop a typewriter. In short, VertitechIT helps healthcare IT departments become more efficient, save money, and where possible, monetize their assets. We view technology as a means of helping doctors and nurses spend more time with their patients. Working with leadership at some of the most prestigious hospitals and health systems in the country, we exceed expectations by shattering the usual barriers that arise between client and consultant. We eliminate in scope and out of scope arguments during the life of every contract by providing access to our entire staff for strategic advice on any topic, any time, no questions asked. Our Architects and Engineers are subject matter experts in hybrid cloud technologies, hyperconvergence, unified communications, and monitoring and management. Our Executive Project Officers have built and run telecommunications companies, managed IT for businesses and hospitals, and architected change to internal and external audiences on behalf of some of the biggest organizations on the planet. We utilize that experience to provide transformational services to CIOs and senior leadership, serving as the strategic technology liaison between them and their IT department.
For more information, please visit VertitechIT.com or contact Vice President of Marketing and Communications Steve Shaw at 413-268-1630 or via email at sshaw@vertitechit.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/former-cigna-health-and-penn-mutual-cio-joins-vertitechit-as-executive-project-officer-300582654.html
SOURCE VertitechIT