U.S. stocks turned negative on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's upgraded assessment of the economy sent rates climbed higher.
The Fed left rates unchanged, but said it expects inflation to move "up this year and to stabilize" around its 2 percent target.
"The statement is pretty consistent with what we've seen in the underlying data," said Erik Schiller, senior portfolio manager at PGIM Fixed Income. "It was a slightly hawkish statement, in our view."
U.S. economic data have been strong lately. ADP and Moody's Analytics Wednesday said private companies added 234,000 jobs in January. Economists polled by Reuters expected a gain of 185,000. Meanwhile, weekly jobless claims remain near their lowest levels in about 40 years.
The Dow Jones industrial average traded 6 points lower. Heading into the announcement, the 30-stock index was trading 148 points higher. It rose as much as 262 points earlier in the session.
"The language in the statement is a little strong, but it's not dramatically hawkish," said Ernie Cecilia, CIO at Bryn Mawr Trust. "This is also about the recognition of a stronger economy and perhaps higher inflation."
The S&P 500 traded 0.2 percent lower after the central bank's statement was released. The Nasdaq composite held just below breakeven, also erasing gains.
U.S. Treasury yields rose on the back of the statement. The benchmark 10-year yield rose to 2.75 percent, before trading at 2.72 percent, while the two-year yield held around 2.15 percent.
Earlier, the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq were trading sharply higher, rebounding from a sharp two-day sell-off. Stronger-than-expected earnings helped lift stocks.
Getty Images Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on January 5, 2017, in New York City. The major indexes fell sharply in the previous two sessions, with the Dow falling more than 500 points in that time period. Rising yields have also put stocks under pressure, elevating concerns over whether higher interest rates could snuff out the bull market.
"There was quite a bit of damage done on a short-term basis with equity indices and many sectors snapping one-month trendlines on heavy negative breadth and higher volume," Mark Newton, managing member at Newton Advisors, in a note to clients. "It's tough to think markets simply recover right away and this proved to be two days only."
Boeing, Eli Lilly and, Anthem among the latest companies that reported quarterly results. Their earnings and revenues topped analyst expectations. Thus far, corporate earnings have mostly surpassed analyst expectations.
Of the S&P 500 companies that had reported as of Tuesday morning, 80 percent have posted better-than-expected earnings, while 81 percent have beaten top-line estimates, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
On the political front, investors digested President Donald Trump's State of the Union address.
The overall theme of the incumbent's speech was "a safe, strong and proud America," with Trump touching upon topics such as immigration, bipartisan cooperation, infrastructure and the economy.
"The biggest reaction was towards the end, when it became clear there weren't going to be any surprises," said Chuck Self, chief investment officer of iSectors. He noted stock futures started to climb around that time Tuesday night.