OAKLAND, Calif., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Brown & Toland Physicians' Board of Directors announced today that Kelly Robison is the company's new chief executive officer.
Robison, a healthcare industry veteran with 25 years' experience, including 18 with Brown & Toland, replaces Richard Fish, who informed the Board in 2017 of his desire to step down as CEO. Fish has been with Brown & Toland since 2007 and has served as CEO since 2011.
"We are thankful to Richard for his years of outstanding leadership, integrity, and strategic acumen," said Neal Birnbaum, M.D., Brown & Toland's chairman of the board. "We are excited to welcome back Kelly as chief executive officer. Kelly brings a great deal of knowledge and expertise, including a comprehensive understanding of the Northern California and national healthcare markets. She is truly dedicated to the success of physicians in private practice."
Robison held various executive roles with Brown & Toland from 1995 to 2013, including leadership positions in strategic planning and contracting. Most recently, she was OptumCare's chief development officer and worked to successfully build, acquire and transform large physician groups, growing to more than 30 markets and over 20,000 employed and contracted physicians in various medical groups and independent practice association (IPA) settings. OptumCare is a division of Optum (a UnitedHealthGroup company).
"I am honored to return to Brown & Toland," said Robison. "While today's health care industry is rapidly transforming, physicians remain the most effective drivers of change. With the level of clinical excellence that Brown & Toland's physicians represent, and a steadfast commitment to evolve in this highly-complex market, I am enthusiastic about the future."
About Brown & Toland Physicians
Brown & Toland Physicians is a leading network of independent doctors focused on delivering personalized, high quality, and affordable healthcare to the San Francisco Bay Area. Its network of 1,500 physicians, serving more than 300,000 HMO and PPO patients, is dedicated to improving care through patient-centered programs, use of healthcare technology, and population health management strategies. The group has succeeded in improving quality outcomes and reducing medical costs across multiple accountable care populations. Brown & Toland collaborates with leading hospitals and health providers to provide local and convenient care in the Bay Area. To learn more, visit www.brownandtoland.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/brown--toland-physicians-names-kelly-robison-chief-executive-officer-300578375.html
SOURCE Brown & Toland Physicians