DALLAS, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Dallas-based law firm Caldwell Cassady & Curry has promoted attorney Hamad M. Hamad to principal. Mr. Hamad's new role is based on his successful representation of clients and demonstrated firm leadership.
Having represented both plaintiffs and defendants in intellectual property disputes and complex commercial litigation, Mr. Hamad provides broad experience in cases involving multimedia content protection and purchasing; digital encryption; medical devices; audio/video conferencing; virtual private networks; cloud computing; oil and gas well completion; and a variety of additional technologies.
Mr. Hamad was a key member of the Caldwell Cassady & Curry trial team that helped Smartflash LLC win Texas' largest intellectual property verdict in 2015 against Apple Inc. A year later, he helped Cellular Communications Equipment, LLC, win a $22 million verdict against Apple in a separate patent infringement trial. He also represented VirnetX Inc. in another victory against Apple that was entered as a judgment of nearly $440 million in late 2017.
His additional work for clients includes assisting with matters before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board on behalf of REM Holdings and Dr. Robert Morley Jr. in a patent infringement and founders' dispute lawsuit against Square Inc.
Registered as a patent attorney before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Mr. Hamad also is licensed to practice in Texas state courts; the U.S. District Courts for the Northern, Eastern and Western Districts of Texas; and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Mr. Hamad has been honored as one of the state's top young lawyers since 2015 on the Texas Super Lawyers Rising Stars list by Thomson Reuters. He earned his law degree, magna cum laude, at the Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law after completing his undergraduate degree in biology, summa cum laude, at the University of Texas at Arlington.
Caldwell Cassady & Curry represents companies and individuals in high-stakes civil litigation, including patent infringement cases, trade secrets claims, fiduciary duty cases, class actions, and disputes involving company founders. The firm has tried and won some of the nation's top verdicts against the largest companies in the world. To learn more, visit www.caldwellcc.com .
For more information, contact Bruce Vincent at 214-763-6226 or bruce.vincent@musecommunicationsllc.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dallas-caldwell-cassady--curry-promotes-attorney-hamad-hamad-to-principal-300579235.html
SOURCE Caldwell Cassady & Curry