Light Reading to host a new series of automation events in 2018 in Dallas and London
New York, New York, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Light Reading ( www.lightreading.com ) is hosting its first US-based automation event, Automation Everywhere ( https://tmt.knect365.com/automation-everywhere/ ), in Dallas, Texas, on April 4.
Automation Everywhere brings together the key players in the automation revolution in a forum that allows service providers to get to grips with some of the most demanding technologies ever developed, and use them to build an automation strategy that will deliver huge increases in service reliability and provisioning speed, as well as massive reductions in opex.
The event is led by Heavy Reading senior analysts Steve Bell and James Crawshaw as well as Light Reading’s founder, Steve Saunders. Confirmed speakers include David Hughes, VP of IP Engineering at PCCW Global.
Topics to be discussed at the event include:
The autonomous network is here. Are you ready for it? The scope for robotic process automation (RPA) and machine learning (ML) in telecom operations Enabling and automating next-gen networks with intent-based modeling Autonomous network ingredients – maturity and adoption What telcos can learn about automation from other industries Closed loop automation for NFV Automation in the carrier WAN
“Automation is not a new topic in the telecom industry. But as the telecom and IT worlds start to merge with technologies such as NFV it is apparent that telecom operators lag their public cloud peers in terms of network automation,” says James Crawshaw, senior analyst, Heavy Reading. “Admittedly the network domains and services that a communication service provider delivers are more complex than those of public cloud operators. Nonetheless, there is significant scope for CSPs to catch up with their cloud peers and that is where new technologies like RPA and ML can help.”
Early bird passes are available for $699. All service providers and cable operators qualify for free admission. To register, visit https://tmt.knect365.com/automation-everywhere/ .
Sponsorship opportunities are still available; contact sales@lightreading.com for more information. For speaking and partnership opportunities contact events@lightreading.com .
Follow Light Reading on Facebook , LinkedIn , Twitter and YouTube for all the latest news.
About Light Reading
Light Reading ( www.lightreading.com ) combines its research-led online communities and targeted events portfolio to help those in the global communications industry make informed decisions. Lightreading.com is the ultimate source for telecom analysis for more than 400,000 subscribers each month, leading the media sector in terms of traffic, content and reputation. Light Reading produces targeted communications events and focused one-day and two-day conferences each year for cable, mobile and wireline executives.
Erin Cardinal
646-618-8854
cardinal@lightreading.com
Source: Light Reading