NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on CHK, CNX, COP, and CRC which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . CNBC reported that J. P. Morgan has raised its 2018 forecast for Brent crude oil prices to $70 a barrel on its view that growth in economies around the world will boost demand for energy. To put that oil price call in context, Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently upped its Brent target to $64 a barrel, while Goldman Sachs kept its forecast at $62, the report further noted. Today, WallStEquities.com tracks the recent performance of four Independent Oil and Gas companies, namely: Chesapeake Energy Corp. (NYSE: CHK), CNX Resources Corp. (NYSE: CNX), ConocoPhillips (NYSE: COP), and California Resources Corp. (NYSE: CRC). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Chesapeake Energy
On Tuesday, shares in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma headquartered Chesapeake Energy Corp. recorded a trading volume of 58.50 million shares, which was above their three months average volume of 27.66 million shares. The stock ended the session 6.44% lower at $3.63. The Company's shares are trading 7.49% below their 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Chesapeake Energy have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 35.01.
On January 19 th , 2018, Chesapeake Energy announced that it will release its Q4 2017 and 2017 year-end operational and financial results on February 22 nd , 2018, before market open. A conference call has been scheduled for that same day at 9:00 a.m. EDT. The conference call will be webcast and available in the "Investors" section of the Company's website. Get the full research report on CHK for free by clicking below at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CHK
CNX Resources
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based CNX Resources Corp.'s stock closed the day 1.16% lower at $13.68. A total volume of 7.62 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 3.65 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 0.50% in the previous three months. The stock is trading 2.82% above its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of CNX Resources have an RSI of 38.99.
On January 09 th , 2018, CNX Resources announced an updated 2018 capital expenditure forecast of $790-$880 million, excluding the recent acquisition of the general partner interest of CNX Midstream Partners L.P. The 2018 budget includes $515-$580 million of drilling and completion ("D&C") capital and approximately $275-$300 million of capital associated with land, midstream, and water infrastructure. The 2018 D&C capital budget is allocated approximately 65% to the Marcellus Shale and 35% to the Utica Shale. Free research on CNX can be accessed at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CNX
ConocoPhillips
Shares in Houston, Texas headquartered ConocoPhillips recorded a trading volume of 6.34 million shares, which was higher than their three months average volume of 5.76 million shares. The stock ended yesterday's trading session 2.01% lower at $58.46. The Company's shares have advanced 5.94% in the past month, 14.16% in the previous three months, and 23.13% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 7.11% and 20.18%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of ConocoPhillips have an RSI of 54.24.
On January 11 th , 2018, ConocoPhillips announced that it will host a conference call webcast on February 01 st , 2018, at 12:00 p.m. EST to discuss Q4 and full-year 2017 financial and operating results. These results will be released before the market opens that same day. The webcast may be accessed on the Company's Investor Relations website.
On January 18 th , 2018, research firm Macquarie initiated an 'Outperform' rating on the Company's stock. Visit WallStEquities.com now and sign up for the free research on COP at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=COP
California Resources
Los Angeles, California headquartered California Resources Corp.'s stock finished Tuesday's session 6.70% lower at $21.60 with a total trading volume of 1.66 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 14.23% in the last month, 113.86% over the previous three months, and 0.93% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 15.77% and 77.69%, respectively. Additionally, shares of California Resources have an RSI of 52.68.
On January 05 th , 2018, California Resources announced that it will host its Q4 and full-year financial results conference call on February 26 th , 2018, at 5:00 p.m. EST. The Company's earnings and guidance will be released following the market close that same day. A webcast of the conference call can be accessed via the link http://dpregister.com/10115435 and a replay of the call will available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.
On January 16 th , 2018, research firm Bank of America/ Merrill upgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Neutral' to 'Buy'. The free technical report on CRC is available at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CRC
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pre-market-technical-scan-on-independent-oil--gas-equities----chesapeake-energy-cnx-resources-conocophillips-and-california-resources-300590965.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities