Industry veteran with more than 25 years of experience to lead small market sales team
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) announced the appointment of Joe Mrozek as national sales manager for the Intermediary Retirement Plan Services division of Lincoln Financial Distributors, Inc. (LFD), the company’s wholesaling distribution organization. He reports to John Kennedy, senior vice president and head of Retirement Solutions Distribution. In his position, Mrozek will focus on the small market 401(k) segment, and is responsible for leading a wholesaling team focused on delivering retirement solutions that will drive positive outcomes for both employers and employees in plans with assets of less than $25 million.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005628/en/
Joe Mrozek, Vice President and National Sales Manager, Intermediary Retirement Plan Services division of Lincoln Financial Distributors, Inc. (LFD). (Photo: Business Wire)
“Over the course of his career Joe has built an exceptional reputation in the small and large market retirement plan space,” said Kennedy. “Joe’s decision to join our team enhances Lincoln’s growth strategy in the intermediary retirement plan space, and our commitment to being a top provider. His deep industry knowledge will no doubt further strengthen Lincoln’s position in the industry.”
Mrozek commented, “I am very excited about the opportunity to work with a world-class firm delivering innovative products and services to the marketplace. I have always been impressed with the people and strong culture of Lincoln Financial and look forward to bringing my 25 plus years of retirement plan experience to the team.”
He joins Lincoln from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, where he spent the last 22 years of his career, and most recently as managing director/national sales manager for the Retirement and Personal Wealth Solutions division. Mrozek previously held positions at Coopers & Lybrand, Morgan Stanley, and Sedgwick Noble Lowndes.
Mrozek received his Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Montclair State University. He resides in Scotch Plains, NJ with his wife and children.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group provides advice and solutions that help empower people to take charge of their financial lives with confidence and optimism. Today, more than 17 million customers trust our retirement, insurance and wealth protection expertise to help address their lifestyle, savings and income goals, as well as to guard against long-term care expenses. Headquartered in Radnor, Pennsylvania, Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. The company had $246 billion in assets under management as of September 30, 2017. Lincoln is a committed corporate citizen and was named one of the Forbes Best Employers for 2017, is a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, and received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index. Learn more at: www.LincolnFinancial.com . Follow us on Facebook , Twitter , LinkedIn , and Instagram . Sign up for email alerts at http://newsroom.lfg.com .
About Lincoln Financial Distributors
Lincoln Financial Distributors, Inc. (LFD), the wholesale distribution business of Lincoln Financial Group (LFG), provides expertise and access to a range of solutions that help advisors protect wealth and deliver outcomes for their clients. Lincoln’s broad portfolio includes innovative annuity, life insurance and retirement solutions that focus on addressing issues related to taxes, healthcare, longevity, inflation and market volatility. LFD comprises seasoned financial professionals who distribute Lincoln products through licensed insurance agents, registered broker-dealers, and other financial services intermediaries. Affiliates are separately responsible for their own financial and contractual obligations.
LCN-1981906-010218
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005628/en/
Lincoln Financial Group
Scott Sloat
484-583-1625
scott.sloat@lfg.com
or
Suzanne Tavani
484-583-1436 or 215-901-8132
suzanne.tavani@lfg.com
Source: Lincoln Financial Group