DALLAS, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Solovis, a multi-asset class portfolio management, analytics and reporting platform for limited partners, asset owners, and allocators, today announced it has appointed Michael Siminoff as Chief Analytics Officer. Siminoff will join EVP Emmitte Griggs in the growth of Solovis' analyst services and provide strategic input into the evolution of the company's reporting and analytics solutions.
Siminoff joined Solovis in December 2017 with the Madrone acquisition. Siminoff founded Madrone in 2013 and served as the company's CEO, growing Madrone into a market innovator in cloud-based asset management analytics. Prior to Madrone, Siminoff held managing director and VP-level roles with Guggenheim Partners, SAC Capital, and JP Morgan.
"I'm very pleased to join Solovis and take on the role of Chief Analytics Officer," said Siminoff. "Solovis is transforming how multi-asset class portfolios are managed and analyzed, and I'm excited to help lead further innovation and growth in our investment analytics solutions and services."
"Michael has extensive knowledge of the asset management industry and demonstrated success in fintech innovation," said Smith. "With the challenges institutional investors face in aggregating and managing multiple asset classes in their investment portfolios, insight and analytics are critical. Solovis is committed to delivering the most innovative portfolio management analytics technology – and appointing Michael to the Chief Analytics Officer role is a reflection of that commitment."
About Solovis
Solovis is a multi-asset class portfolio management and reporting solution for foundations, endowments, pensions, OCIOs, and family offices. Designed and built for open architecture asset management, Solovis is a flexible, robust technology platform that enables detailed analysis and dynamic data modeling across multiple portfolios and pools of capital for actionable, transparent insights that empower investors from the front to back office.
CONTACT: Laleh Kadjar, lkadjar@solovis.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/multi-asset-class-portfolio-management-leader-solovis-grows-executive-team-with-chief-analytics-officer-300579909.html
SOURCE Solovis