ATLANTA, GA, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Gopher Protocol Inc. (OTCQB: GOPH) ("Gopher" and the "Company"), a company specializing in the creation of Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence enabled mobile technologies, has entered an initial agreement term to acquire 50% of Spare CS Inc., paving the way for Mobile Payments and International Cryptocurrency capabilities. http://www.otcmarkets.com/edgar/GetFilingHtml?FilingID=12478331
Spare - https://gotspare.com is a mobile ATM network platform using new paradigms and software to provide unique financial services to the unbanked and underbanked as well adding convenience to the banked population . Once we close on the acquisition, the Spare App has the capability to potentially turn any cash register in the Company’s network into an ATM. The SPARE mobile network simplifies safe access to money by employing a unique security system to create convenient access to cash from virtual currency to the “real” world.
“The Company is pleased in making this initial progress as part of this proposed acquisition. Millions of our customers across our network of locations are part of the underbanked and unbanked population. We are always looking for additional products and services we can bring to our user base” stated Gregory Bauer, CEO.
About Gopher Protocol Inc.
Gopher Protocol Inc. (OTCQB: GOPH) (“Gopher” and the "Company") ( http://gopherprotocol.com/ ) is a development-stage company which consider itself Native IoT creator, developing Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence enabled mobile technology. The Company has a portfolio of Intellectual Property that when commercialized will include smart microchips, mobile application software and supporting cloud software. The system contemplates the creation of a global network. The core of the system will be it’s advanced microchip technology that can be installed in any mobile device worldwide. Gopher envisions this system as an internal, private network between all enabled mobile devices providing shared processing, advanced mobile database management/sharing and enhanced mobile features.
Corporate Site: http://gopherprotocol.com
Press page/ press kit - http://gopherprotocol.com/?page_id=228
Consumer and product website for Guardian Patch: http://www.guardianpatch.com/ .
About Guardian Pet Tracker http://www.guardianpettracker.com/
The Guardian Pet Tracker (Sphere Internal name - the "Sphere") system is a derivative technology of Gopher's Guardian Patch technology. The Sphere is designed to provide its users with local tracking capability using a re-chargeable/replaceable battery source. Gopher intends to release pre-production units in limited test in the near future.
GOPH disclosure: More info: SEC link /technology abstract :
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements". Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors as disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission located at their website ( http://www.sec.gov ). In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
Contact: Greg Bauer, CEO Gopher Protocol Inc. VM Only 888-685-7336 Media: press@gopherprotocol.com
Source:Gopher Protocol, Inc.