LAS VEGAS, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Las Vegas Sands (NYSE: LVS) announced today that it will release its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 on Wednesday, January 24, 2018.
The company will release its financial results shortly after the market close of the New York Stock Exchange and will host a conference call to discuss its results at approximately 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Time).
A webcast of the conference call may be accessed at the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.sands.com .
About Las Vegas Sands Corp.
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (NYSE: LVS ) is the world's pre-eminent developer and operator of world-class Integrated Resorts that feature luxury hotels; best-in-class gaming; retail; dining and entertainment; Meetings, Incentives, Convention and Exhibition (MICE) facilities; and many other business and leisure amenities. We pioneered the MICE-driven Integrated Resort, a unique, industry-leading and extremely successful model that serves both the business and leisure tourism markets.
Our properties include The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts and Sands Expo in Las Vegas, Sands Bethlehem in Eastern Pennsylvania, and the iconic Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Through majority ownership in Sands China Ltd. , LVS owns a portfolio of properties on the Cotai Strip in Macao, including The Venetian Macao , The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao , Sands Cotai Central and The Parisian Macao , as well as the Sands Macao on the Macao Peninsula.
LVS is dedicated to being a good corporate citizen, anchored by the core tenets of delivering a great working environment for our more than 50,000 team members worldwide, driving impact through its Sands Cares corporate giving program and leading innovation with the company's award-winning Sands ECO360° global sustainability program. To learn more, please visit www.sands.com .
Contacts:
Investment Community:
Daniel Briggs
(702) 414-1221
Media:
Ron Reese
(702) 414-3607
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/las-vegas-sands-to-announce-fourth-quarter-2017-financial-results-300584328.html
SOURCE Las Vegas Sands Corp.