MIDDLETON, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: SPB), a global consumer products company offering a portfolio of leading brands providing superior value to consumers and customers every day, announced today it will release its fiscal 2018 first quarter financial results for the period ended December 31, 2017 before the markets open on Thursday, February 8.
Spectrum Brands will conduct a live conference call and live webcast on February 8 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Central Time) to be hosted by Andreas Rouvé, Chief Executive Officer, and Doug Martin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To access the live audio conference call, U.S. participants may call 877-556-5260 and international participants may call 973-532-4903. The conference call ID number is 4889837. A live webcast and related presentation slides will be available by visiting the Event Calendar page in the Investor Relations section of Spectrum Brands’ website at www.spectrumbrands.com .
A replay of the live webcast also will be accessible through the Event Calendar page in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website.
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available through Thursday, February 22. To access this replay, all participants may call 855-859-2056 and use the same conference call ID.
About Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc.
Spectrum Brands Holdings, a member of the Russell 1000 Index, is a global consumer products company offering a portfolio of leading brands providing superior value to consumers and customers every day. The Company is a leading supplier of consumer batteries, residential locksets, residential builders’ hardware, plumbing, shaving and grooming products, personal care products, small household appliances, specialty pet supplies, lawn and garden and home pest control products, personal insect repellents, and auto care products. Helping to meet the needs of consumers worldwide, our Company offers a broad portfolio of market-leading, well-known and widely trusted brands including Rayovac®, VARTA®, Kwikset®, Weiser®, Baldwin®, National Hardware®, Pfister®, Remington®, George Foreman®, Russell Hobbs®, Black+Decker®, Tetra®, Marineland®, Nature’s Miracle®, Dingo®, 8-in-1®, FURminator®, IAMS® and Eukanuba® (Europe only), Digest-eeze™, Healthy-Hide®, Littermaid®, Spectracide®, Cutter®, Repel®, Hot Shot®, Black Flag®, Liquid Fence®, Armor All®, STP® and A/C PRO®. Spectrum Brands' products are sold by the world's top 25 retailers and are available in more than one million stores in approximately 160 countries. Based in Middleton, Wisconsin, Spectrum Brands Holdings generated net sales of approximately $5.01 billion in fiscal 2017. For more information, visit www.spectrumbrands.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005133/en/
Investor/Media Contact:
Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc .
Dave Prichard
608-278-6141
Source: Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc.