CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Aegon Asset Management announced that real estate industry veteran Philip J. McAndrews joined Aegon USA Realty Advisors, LLC as Head of Real Estate Equity on January 2, 2018. McAndrews has 25 years of experience at TIAA, including four years as CIO of the Global Real Estate division. His track record includes negotiating pioneering investments in the US for several of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds and collaborating on TIAA's acquisition of the $24 billion Henderson Global Real Estate Platform in 2015.
"We look forward to Philip applying his extensive expertise to the development and expansion of the real estate business, in particular to build out a successful equity real estate platform," said Gary Black, CEO for Aegon USA Realty Advisors, LLC. "With his deep experience, talent and track record of transformation in the global real estate space, Phil will play a key role in the continuing innovation of the firm's product offerings."
Aegon Co-Head of Real Estate Scott Coté continued, "Adding a high character and energy person like Phil, who understands client needs as well as the complex and changing real estate landscape enhances our ability to add the right products to meet investor demands." Aegon Co-Head of Real Estate Christoph Gabler added, "We look forward to his contributions to the team and the expansion of our specialized yield-oriented alternatives strategies and client-centric service capabilities."
Prior to joining Aegon, McAndrews was senior managing director, CIO of global real estate at TIAA. He led a team of 160 professionals responsible for all equity and debt real estate activity for TIAA with assets under management exceeding $66 billion at the time of his departure. In addition, he was part of the management group responsible for the $24 billion TH Real Estate platform.
"This is an exciting opportunity to contribute to a well-established, well-resourced and integrated platform offering a broad range of real estate expertise," said McAndrews. "I look forward to working with the team to provide Aegon's clients with the strategic vision, market access and service required to help them meet their investment objectives."
Aegon USA Realty Advisors is a fully-integrated real estate asset manager that has provided real estate investment services to institutional clients for more than three decades.
About Aegon Asset Management
Aegon Asset Management is a global, active investment manager with $375 billion assets under management, as of September 30, 2017. Investment capabilities include traditional and alternative fixed income strategies that span the credit quality and yield spectrum, real assets, specialty real estate yield-oriented strategies, equities, multi-asset strategies, and customized investment solutions.
Aegon Asset Management is the global investment management brand of the Aegon Group N.V. and is comprised of Aegon USA Investment Management, LLC ("AUIM"), Aegon USA Realty Advisors, LLC ("AURA"), Kames Capital plc ("Kames Capital") and other Aegon affiliates. AUIM, AURA and Kames Capital are SEC registered investment advisers.
Aegon Asset Management offers diverse investment solutions to a global client base, ranging from sophisticated customized solutions for large institutional clients to pooled funds for retail investors. Whoever the client, we are equally committed to excellence, trust and building long-term partnerships.
For more information on Aegon USA Realty Advisors, visit aegonrealty.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-real-estate-leader-philip-j-mcandrews-joins-aegon-asset-management-300578603.html
SOURCE Aegon Asset Management