LAFAYETTE, Colo., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- urban-gro , a leading cultivation technologies company delivering best-in-class systems, solutions, and technologies to large-scale commercial Cannabis cultivators across North America, is pleased to announce the hire of Morris Brink as its director of sales for the Western United States. Brink joins urban-gro from Argus Control Systems, a leader and pioneer in automated control systems for horticulture and Cannabis. His role will be to oversee, guide, and dramatically expand all sales operations in the critical Western U.S. markets of California, Washington, Oregon, Colorado, and more.
“In a burgeoning market like Cannabis, we are thrilled to add the caliber of talent and experience that Morris brings to urban-gro,” said Brad Nattrass, CEO at urban-gro. “Morris has significant technical knowledge coupled with a proven track record of customer successes in both the Cannabis and horticultural markets that will further enhance our significant growth across the Western United States.”
Morris Brink graduated from UC Davis, a nationally recognized agriculture institution, with a degree in Agricultural Economics. He started his career in the Cannabis market as Western Sales Manager at Hydrofarm, Inc. and held senior leadership positions at TrueLeaf Technologies and Silverback Advisory Group before joining Argus Control Systems, a leader in automation for greenhouses and indoor facilities. With more than 15 years of industry experience, Morris is the perfect fit to expand the market footprint for urban-gro’s pioneering Soleil Technologies platform, which is designed to deliver cloud management, wireless control, and process automation to Cannabis cultivators.
“urban-gro is combining technology automation and precision for Cannabis cultivation, and I’m thrilled to be part of this exciting company,” said Brink. “If there is anything my previous experience has taught me, it’s that there is a deep market need for automation and control, particularly as cultivation continues to expand and the need for efficiency becomes increasingly critical to success. urban-gro is in the ideal position to meet that growing market demand.”
urban-gro experts will participate at some of the biggest events in the Cannabis industry, including:
NCIA Seed-to-Sale Show in Denver February 7-8, 2018, Cannacon in Seattle February 15-17, 2018 and Marijuana Business Conference NEXT in New Orleans May 9-11 and NCIA Cananbis Business Summit & Expo in San Jose, CA July 25-27, 2018
ABOUT URBAN-GRO
urban-gro is a leading cultivation technologies company delivering best-in-class systems, solutions, and technologies to large-scale Cannabis cultivators throughout North America. urban-gro helps growers achieve sustainable scalability via innovative technologies that drive down cost, increase economic yield, and reduce environmental impact. Not only is urban-gro recognized as one of the Cannabis industry’s fastest growing companies, the firm is developing its own innovative cultivation technologies to optimize efficiencies and maximize ROI. Visit www.urban-gro.com to learn more. Follow us on Instagram , Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn .
For media inquiries, please contact:
Barbara Jacobs
urban-gro, Inc.
Barbara@urban-gro.com
Tel: +1 720-390-3880 x131
Jay Nichols
Nichols Communications
jay@nicholscomm.com
Tel: +1 408-772-1551
Source: urban-gro