LITTLE ROCK, Ark.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Stephens Inc., an independent financial services firm, today announced further expansion of its public finance presence in Texas with the addition of Curt Shelmire as senior vice president and manager of Texas public finance; and Kevin Jackson as vice president of municipal underwriting and trading. Curt will be based out of Stephens’ Austin office and Kevin will be based out of Stephens’ Dallas office.
“Surging population growth in Texas creates demand for greater resources and infrastructure improvements. Accordingly, our increasing market presence and capabilities are aligned to meet the region’s evolving public finance needs,” said Dennis Hunt, Executive Vice President and Head of Public Finance at Stephens Inc. “Curt and Kevin bring to Stephens a wealth of industry experience and practical knowledge of the opportunities and challenges affecting municipalities throughout the state. Furthermore, we’ve established a solid foundation and will continue to grow our presence in Austin, Dallas and Houston with plans of hiring additional talented bankers in the region,” remarked Dennis Hunt, Executive Vice President and Manager of Public Finance at Stephens.
Curt Shelmire joins as senior vice president and manager of Texas public finance. Mr. Shelmire has more than 27 years of public finance experience with his most recent position at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. where he was a managing director of public finance investment banking. Previously, Mr. Shelmire held positions at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch & Co. He was a public finance associate and analyst earlier in his career. Mr. Shelmire has spent the majority of his career operating in Austin. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia.
Kevin Jackson joins Stephens as vice president of municipal underwriting and trading. Mr. Jackson has nearly two decades of experience in municipal underwriting and trading with his most recent position at Preston Hollow Capital where he was head of municipal trading. Previously, Mr. Jackson was senior vice president and managing director of municipal trading at Hilltop Securities. He graduated cum laude from Northwood University.
“We are thrilled with the continued growth of our public finance and fixed income sales and trading in Texas. With the additions of Curt and Kevin, we are well-positioned to capitalize on the strong momentum in our public finance investment banking business and the opportunities that lie ahead. We are pleased to welcome them to Stephens and look forward to their contributions,” concluded Larry Bowden, Executive Vice President and Director of Fixed Income Sales and Trading.
The Stephens Austin office address is 100 Congress Avenue, Suite 750, Austin, Texas 78701, phone number (800) 892-7518. The Stephens Dallas office address is 300 Crescent Court, Suite 600, Dallas, Texas 75201, phone number (877) 749-9991.
About Stephens Inc. Stephens Inc. is a full service, independent financial services firm headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas. Since its inception in 1933, privately held Stephens Inc. has served a broad client base which includes corporations, state and local governments, financial institutions, institutional investors and individual investors throughout the United States and overseas. For more information, visit www.stephens.com . Member NYSE, SIPC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005063/en/
Stephens Inc.
Chenoa Taitt, 212-891-1742
chenoa.taitt@stephens.com
or
Holly Lenderman, 501-377-8279
holly.lenderman@stephens.com
Source: Stephens Inc.