NEW YORK, January 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
INX Limited announced today the submission of a confidentially filed draft registration statement to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for an initial public offering of the INX Token, as part of the development of a regulated platform for trading blockchain assets (widely referred to as Crypto-Currencies or Tokens) and their derivatives (the "INX Exchange").
The number of tokens to be offered and the price range for the offering have not yet been determined. The proposed offering is expected to commence after the SEC completes its review process, subject to market and other conditions.
Net proceeds from the proposed offering will be used for the continuing development of the INX Exchange and the establishment of a cash reserve fund which will satisfy regulatory requirements.
This announcement is being made pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 135 under the Securities Act of 1933. As required by Rule 135, this press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of that jurisdiction.
About INX Limited
INX Limited is a Gibraltar private company formed in 2017.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements which relate to future events or our future performance or financial condition. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, condition or results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors.
Contact Details
NY , USA
Warren H. Cohn
CEO/Founder
HeraldPR
+1-917-796-7463
Warren@HeraldPR.com
Tel-Aviv, Israel
Tali Karasik Regev
Extra Mind PR
+972-54-5901474
Tali@xmind.co.il
SOURCE INX Limited