CHICAGO, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Maddock Douglas is thrilled to announce that Diana Kander has joined the firm as Director, Innovation Culture & Habits.
Diana is a dynamic writer, storyteller and thought leader. In her new role at Maddock Douglas, she will be responsible for inspiring and empowering like-minded innovation leaders to embody the cultural practices that meaningfully improve customer experiences.
"Both Mike Maddock and I have had the pleasure of sharing a stage with Diana at various innovation conferences, and immediately saw her as a kindred spirit with a mindset that fit perfectly with the culture and philosophy at Maddock Douglas," says Maria Ferrante-Schepis, President of Maddock Douglas. "She will help us to advance our mission to serve the people who truly believe that reinvention for a greater good is possible."
Diana has an impressive and varied background. She came to the United States at the age of 8 when her family escaped from the Soviet Union. She is a Georgetown educated attorney who left her practice to start several different ventures, leading her on a path to become an educator and motivator on the subject of innovation and entrepreneurship. She wrote the New York Times Bestseller titled, All In Startup, and is currently writing her second book, due out this year. She lives in Kansas City, Missouri with her husband, Jason, and their son, True.
"I am beyond excited to join Maddock Douglas," said Kander. "I share the passion that these innovation experts have for creating genuine value for their clients and I feel privileged to be a part of the team."
About Maddock Douglas: Maddock Douglas was established in 1991 to help like-minded leaders in complex industries to inspire and empower innovation. Maddock Douglas has had the privilege of working with over 25% of Fortune 100 brands as well as industry associations serving critical public needs such as insurance, financial services, pharmaceuticals, healthcare, real estate and legal services. The firm brings several competencies to tackle the challenges of innovating around new products, services and business models, and to help companies shape their future, finding new, viable and own-able growth opportunities.
CONTACT: Trent Howard, trent.h@maddockdouglas.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/diana-kander-joins-chicagoland-innovation-firm-maddock-douglas-inc-300581140.html
SOURCE Maddock Douglas, Inc.