DENVER & MONTREAL--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP; TSX: TPX) will host an online, real-time webcast of the company’s 2017 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call with investors and financial analysts at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Mountain Time) on Wednesday, February 14, 2018. The company will release earnings at approximately 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the same day. Company executives participating in the conference call will include Mark Hunter, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Tracey Joubert, Chief Financial Officer.
The webcast will be accessible via the Molson Coors Brewing Company web site, www.molsoncoors.com . An online replay of the earnings call webcast will be posted within two hours following the live webcast and will be available until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on May 1, 2018.
Overview of Molson Coors
With a story that starts in 1774, Molson Coors has spent centuries defining brewing greatness. As one of the largest global brewers, Molson Coors works to deliver extraordinary brands that delight the world’s beer drinkers. From Coors Light, Coors Banquet, Miller Lite, Molson Canadian, Carling, Staropramen and Sharp’s Doom Bar to Leinenkugel’s Summer Shandy, Blue Moon Belgian White, Hop Valley, Creemore Springs and Crispin Cider, Molson Coors offers a beer for every beer lover.
Molson Coors operates through MillerCoors, Molson Coors Canada, Molson Coors Europe and Molson Coors International. The company is not only committed to brewing extraordinary beers, but also running a business focused on respect for its employees, communities and drinkers, which means corporate responsibility and accountability right from the start. It has been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the past seven years. To learn more about Molson Coors Brewing Company, visit molsoncoors.com , ourbeerprint.com or on Twitter through @MolsonCoors .
About Molson Coors Canada Inc.
Molson Coors Canada Inc. (MCCI) is a subsidiary of Molson Coors Brewing Company. MCCI Class A and Class B exchangeable shares offer substantially the same economic and voting rights as the respective classes of common shares of MCBC, as described in MCBC’s annual proxy statement and Form 10-K filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The trustee holder of the special Class A voting stock and the special Class B voting stock has the right to cast a number of votes equal to the number of then outstanding Class A exchangeable shares and Class B exchangeable shares, respectively.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005077/en/
Molson Coors Brewing Company
Media:
Colin Wheeler, 303-927-2443
or
Investor Relations:
Kevin Kim, 303-927-2515
Source: Molson Coors