WASHINGTON, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc. (CFP Board) announced today that it has imposed an automatic interim suspension of Charles Henry Frieda's CFP ® certification, effective January 8, 2018.
CFP Board imposed an automatic interim suspension after discovering that Mr. Frieda entered into a Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) in which he accepted and consented, without admitting or denying, to the entry of the following findings by FINRA: Mr. Frieda and another representative recommended an investment strategy to more than 50 customers, which was a majority of their customers, causing the customers' accounts to become significantly over-concentrated in a single sector of the overall market. The over-concentration primarily involved four speculative equity securities within the energy sector. Due to the speculative nature of the recommended securities, the volatility of the energy market, and the high level of concentration, this strategy exposed customers to significant potential losses. Mr. Frieda failed to properly consider and failed to obtain accurate customer investment profile information to determine the suitability of his over-concentration strategy and the securities he recommended as part of that strategy. FINRA determined that Mr. Frieda violated FINRA Rules 2111 and 2010. FINRA imposed a bar from association with any FINRA member in any capacity.
Pursuant to Article 5.7 of CFP Board's Disciplinary Rules and Procedures, "[a]n interim suspension shall immediately be issued without a hearing when CFP Board Counsel receives evidence of a conviction or a professional discipline in accordance with Article 13.1 for…revocation of a financial professional license (securities, insurance, accounting or bank-related license)." Under the automatic interim suspension order, Mr. Frieda's right to use the CFP ® certification marks is suspended pending CFP Board's completed investigation and possible further disciplinary proceedings.
CFP Board's enforcement process is a critical consumer protection. CFP ® professionals agree to abide by CFP Board's Standards of Professional Conduct (Standards), which includes the Code of Ethics and Professional Responsibility (Code of Ethics), Rules of Conduct and Financial Planning Practice Standards (Practice Standards). The Standards set forth the ethical standards for financial planners who hold the CFP ® certification.
CFP Board enforces its ethical standards by investigating incidents of alleged unethical behavior by CFP ® professionals. In cases where violations are found, the Disciplinary and Ethics Commission (Commission) may impose discipline ranging from a private censure or public letter of admonition to the suspension or revocation of an individual's right to use the CFP ® marks. CFP Board's Disciplinary Rules and Procedures set forth the process for investigating matters and imposing discipline where violations have been found.
ABOUT CFP BOARD
The mission of Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc. is to benefit the public by granting the CFP ® certification and upholding it as the recognized standard of excellence for competent and ethical personal financial planning. The Board of Directors, in furthering CFP Board's mission, acts on behalf of the public, CFP ® professionals and other stakeholders. CFP Board owns the certification marks CFP ® , Certified Financial Planner™, CFP ® (with plaque design) and CFP ® (with flame design) in the U.S., which it awards to individuals who successfully complete CFP Board's initial and ongoing certification requirements. CFP Board currently authorizes almost 80,000 individuals to use these marks in the U.S.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cfp-board-imposes-interim-suspension-on-charles-henry-frieda-300586002.html
SOURCE Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc.