NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Dentsu Aegis Network today announces that it has acquired Detroit, Michigan-based HelloWorld, a digital marketing solutions provider focused on promotion and loyalty solutions. The business will be rebranded “HelloWorld, a Merkle Company.”
With 370 people and a proprietary technology platform, this acquisition will further scale Merkle’s people-based marketing disciplines, including loyalty solutions, performance media, customer relationship marketing, customer experience, and enterprise technology services.
HelloWorld has developed a differentiated practice that links response-driven consumer promotion with loyalty strategies and program execution. The company operates at the intersection of data, technology, and marketing strategy, enabling marketers to more effectively engage consumers and drive desirable emotional and behavioral response. HelloWorld creates promotional and gamified campaigns to spark interest, loyalty programs to retain and reward, insights-driven communications to continue the brand-consumer conversation, and analytics to optimize marketing execution. Long-standing clients include Coca Cola, Johnson & Johnson, and Microsoft.
HelloWorld was founded in 1999 in Detroit, Michigan and has expanded to offices in Seattle, WA, Chicago, IL, New York, NY, and Los Angeles, CA.
“The acquisition of HelloWorld increases our collective scale in providing loyalty strategy, technology, and engagement services that support the life cycle of our clients’ programs, across industries,” said Michael Hemsey, executive vice president of Merkle Loyalty Solutions. “Bringing together two recent Forrester Loyalty Wave™ strong performers makes us one of the most significant and strategic players in our industry. We will continue to expand our global client roster, working with brands that leverage the sophistication of our people-based loyalty marketing and technology solutions.”
“HelloWorld and Merkle share the vision to help our clients transform their marketing through insight-driven personalized experiences,” said Peter DeNunzio, CEO of HelloWorld, who will retain his position. “Leveraging the growth we have seen in recent years and joining forces with Merkle creates a true industry leader in people-based marketing solutions. Adding HelloWorld’s expertise in promotion and loyalty to Merkle’s comprehensive suite of solutions, our combined organization offers clients world-class capability, from acquisition to retention to ultimate loyalty in the brand-consumer ecosystem.”
Notes to Editors:
About Dentsu Aegis Network
Part of Dentsu Inc., Dentsu Aegis Network is made up of ten global network brands - Carat, Dentsu, dentsu X, iProspect, Isobar, mcgarrybowen, Merkle, MKTG, Posterscope and Vizeum and supported by its specialist/multi-market brands. Dentsu Aegis Network is Innovating the Way Brands Are Built for its clients through its best-in-class expertise and capabilities in media, digital and creative communications services. Offering a distinctive and innovative range of products and services, Dentsu Aegis Network is headquartered in London and operates in 145 countries worldwide with more than 40,000 dedicated specialists. www.dentsuaegisnetwork.com
About Merkle
Merkle is a leading data-driven, technology-enabled, global performance marketing agency that specializes in the delivery of unique, personalized customer experiences across platforms and devices. For more than 30 years, Fortune 1000 companies and leading nonprofit organizations have partnered with Merkle to maximize the value of their customer portfolios. The agency’s heritage in data, technology, and analytics forms the foundation for its unmatched skills in understanding consumer insights that drive people-based marketing strategies. Its combined strengths in performance media, customer experience, customer relationship management, loyalty, and enterprise marketing technology drive improved marketing results and competitive advantage. With 4,700 employees, Merkle is headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with 16 additional offices in the US and 15 offices in Europe and Asia. In 2016, the agency joined the Dentsu Aegis Network. For more information, contact Merkle at 1-877-9-Merkle or visit www.merkleinc.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005119/en/
Merkle
Sarah Bourdeau
Associate Director, Public Relations & Analyst Relations
+00 1 443 542 4288
sbourdeau@merkleinc.com
Source: Dentsu Aegis Network