LAS VEGAS, Nevada, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Interblock® , leading luxury electronic table gaming manufacturer, announced today the appointment of Rob Friedl as Vice President of Sales, Corporate Accounts. With a base in Reno, Nevada, Rob will be responsible for overseeing sales operations and management with a focus on United States corporate operators.
Rob brings more than 16 years of sales management and business development experience to Interblock. Most recently, Rob served as Senior Account Executive for Konami Gaming, Inc. where he managed multi-million dollar territories selling hardware, software and service solutions. Prior to that role, he served as Territory Sales Manager for JCM Global, where he managed more than 160 accounts and served as a key member in the opening of its new branch office in Reno, NV.
Interblock CEO, John Connelly said, “We are excited to welcome Rob to the Interblock team. His breadth and depth of industry knowledge and his incredible track record will make him a fantastic asset to Interblock.”
Prior to entering the gaming industry, Rob served as Professional Representative II for Merck & Co., where he was honored the Vice President’s Club Award in 2003 for the highest sales achievement and was a five-time winner of the Award for Excellence for outstanding sales performance within the company. Robert was also honored JCM Global’s Sales Manager of the Year in 2007 and 2010.
Join Interblock on Facebook , LinkedIn , Twitter and YouTube .
About Interblock
Interblock® is a worldwide leading developer and supplier of luxury electronic table gaming products. Its multi-player gaming devices set industry standards and provide the ultimate in luxury interactive entertainment experiences. The Interblock brand is globally recognized for diamond quality gaming solutions and technical support in more than 200 jurisdictions. Interblock’s exclusive collection of fully and semi-automated electronic gaming tables and video gaming solutions provide casinos, arcades and gambling halls with superior product performance and their guests with an unforgettable gaming experience. For more information, visit www.interblockgaming.com or call +1 (702) 260-1384.
Rob Friedl, VP of Sales for Corporate Accounts, Interblock
Interblock Luxury Gaming Products
###
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/33b0bd38-8330-4e5d-a450-676c5d07002c
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c1dc5ede-593c-43ba-a294-0ea534fabe9e
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/5ea2c8a8-8ea4-4ae0-bcd5-7491bbcfefd8
Bethany Kozal Interblock Luxury Gaming Products 702-918-6066 bethany.kozal@interblockgaming.com
Source: Interblock Luxury Gaming Products