ANN ARBOR, Mich., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- NSF International, a global public health organization and leading provider of regulatory compliance, quality systems, analytical testing, education and consulting services for the medical device sector, has appointed U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) veteran Robert Ruff to the post of Executive Director, Medical Device Certification and Training.
In his new role, Ruff will provide NSF International's medical device industry clients with expert training and certification services. His primary responsibilities will be to manage key sectors of NSF's global medical device business and to use his expertise and resources in meeting the needs of clients.
"Rob brings the utmost integrity and dedication to NSF International," said Kim Trautman, Executive VP for International Medical Device Services at NSF International. "With his diplomatic manner, extensive knowledge and unique expertise, he accomplishes difficult projects while maintaining collaborative working relationships with colleagues and customers alike. We are thrilled to welcome him aboard."
Ruff brings over 30 years of experience in the medical device and public health sectors to NSF International. After serving in the United States Army, Ruff began his career in the orthopedic industry. From there he went on to a distinguished career at the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), where he spent 27 years in various roles, beginning as an investigator for the New Jersey District Office.
At the FDA, Ruff was a member of the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA) Medical Device Investigator Certification Board, where he assisted in the development and management of ORA's Level II medical device investigator certification program. Ruff later moved to the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health, where he led an international team of subject matter experts tasked with the development, implementation and maintenance of the Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP).
Throughout his career, Ruff has been extensively published, authoring or co-authoring regulatory audit models – including Quality System Inspection Technique (QSIT) and the MDSAP Audit Model – as well as training programs, courses and articles.
NSF International is a global, independent organization that writes standards, and tests and certifies products for the health sciences, water, food and consumer goods industries to minimize adverse health effects and protect the environment. Founded in 1944, NSF is committed to protecting human health and safety worldwide. With locations in more than 30 countries, NSF International is a Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Center on Food Safety, Water Quality and Indoor Environment.
CONTACT: Thomas Frey, APR
+1 734 214 6242
media@nsf.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nsf-international-adds-former-us-regulator-to-medical-device-certification-and-training-program-300584884.html
SOURCE NSF International