THOUSAND OAKS, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Moravia IT, an RWS Group company, is pleased to announce that Paul Danter has been appointed Chief Executive Officer effective January 10, 2018. He succeeds Tomas Kratochvil who will move to join the Board of Directors of Moravia IT and, after a handover period to Paul, will also be invited to join the Board of RWS.
During his 22 successful years at Moravia, Tomas held multiple roles from operations to client acquisition and services, and was Managing Director before being appointed CEO in February 2010. During his eight years as CEO, Tomas led the company to secure their status as a premier provider of globalization services, growing revenue organically by 300%, achieving a record annual revenue of almost US $170 million in 2017, and earning Moravia recognition as one of the fastest-growing companies by Inc. 5000 Europe and the Financial Times.
Based in the Bay Area, Paul Danter joined Moravia in 2015 and most recently served as EVP Business Development and Client Services, with an overall responsibility for global client services, new client acquisition and marketing.
"We've built Moravia on the idea of combining flexible thinking with reliable delivery, and this is what has made us so successful with some of the most admired global brands over the past 27 years," commented Tomas Kratochvil. "I've worked with Paul daily over the past three years and know he has the ideal mix of attitude and experience to take Moravia to the next level. I'm excited to support him and Moravia's future development in my new capacity."
"It's a privilege to take the helm after such a strong and inspiring leader as Tomas," added Paul Danter. "Moravia is a people-powered business and people always have been and always will be our biggest strength. Combined with the Moravian culture, we have an unbeatable global team that I'm now proud to lead."
"We are delighted to announce the proposed acquisition of Moravia which will greatly increase our exposure to the high-growth technology sector, will add a third market leading business of scale to the Group and will extend our global presence," added Andrew Brode, Chairman of RWS. "Its focus on addressing its clients' large, complex and time-critical localization requirements across more than 160 languages and multiple platforms will be an excellent fit alongside our existing market leading intellectual property and life sciences services."
"I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Tomas for helping to create such an impressive organization, with its strong industry reputation and growth track record, that he is now handing over to Paul in an excellent shape," commented Andrew Brode, Chairman of RWS. "I look forward to working with Paul and Tomas and growing Moravia further as part of the RWS Group. There are exciting opportunities ahead for our combined Group thanks to the larger global presence and expanded range of complementary services."
About Moravia
Moravia is a leading globalization solution provider, enabling companies in the information technology, e-learning, and life sciences industries to enter global markets with high quality multilingual products. Moravia maintains global headquarters in the Czech Republic and North American headquarters in California, with local offices and production centers in Japan, China, Latin America, Ireland, USA and throughout Europe. To learn more, please visit www.moravia.com .
About RWS
RWS is the world's leading provider of patent translations and one of the leading players in the provision of intellectual property support services and a market leader in life sciences translations and linguistic validation as well as a high-level specialist language service provider in other technical areas, providing for the diverse needs of a blue-chip multinational client base from Europe, North America and Asia. RWS is based in the UK, with offices in Europe, the USA (New York, Hartford, Broomfield, San Francisco, Boston and Chicago), China, Japan and Australia, and is listed on AIM, the London Stock Exchange regulated market (RWS.L). For further information, please visit www.rws.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/moravia-names-new-ceo-achieves-record-revenue-300581504.html
SOURCE Moravia