WESTLAKE VILLAGE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- LTC Properties, Inc. (NYSE:LTC) announced today that it had declared a monthly cash dividend on its common stock for the first quarter of 2018.
The Company declared a monthly cash dividend of $0.19 per common share per month for the months of January, February and March 2018, payable on January 31, February 28 and March 30, 2018, respectively, to stockholders of record on January 23, February 20 and March 22, 2018, respectively.
About LTC Properties
LTC (NYSE:LTC) is a real estate investment trust that invests in seniors housing and health care properties primarily through sale-leaseback transactions, mortgage financing and structured finance solutions including mezzanine lending. The company’s portfolio currently includes more than 200 assisted living communities, memory care communities and post-acute/skilled nursing centers, located in 28 states with 29 regional and national operating partners. For more information on LTC Properties, Inc., visit the Company’s website at www.LTCreit.com , or connect with us on Twitter @LTCreit and LinkedIn .
This press release includes statements that are not purely historical and are “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding the Company’s expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. All statements other than historical facts contained in this press release are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All forward looking statements included in this press release are based on information available to the Company on the date hereof, and the Company assumes no obligation to update such forward looking statements. Although the Company’s management believes that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. The actual results achieved by the Company may differ materially from any forward looking statements due to the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005016/en/
LTC Properties, Inc.
Wendy Simpson
Pam Kessler
(805) 981-8655
Source: LTC Properties, Inc.