COLUMBIA, Md., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global performance improvement solutions provider GP Strategies Corporation (NYSE: GPX) is pleased to welcome Russell Becker as its new Chief Sales Officer. Becker will be responsible for developing strategic plans that promote sales growth, including establishing a structured and more centralized business development capability that will align the Company's diverse market sector expertise with its service offerings.
Becker joins GP Strategies with extensive leadership experience helping organizations establish the right organizational strategy and sales discipline to achieve their aggressive growth goals. Most recently, he served as President and CEO of AchieveForum, where he integrated two different sales and learning organizations to operate as one entity. Prior to that, he held various leadership positions at Kenexa, a company acquired by IBM, including Executive Vice President of Global Sales, where he was responsible for a sales force that achieved and sustained substantial top-and bottom-line growth.
"The addition of Russ to our leadership team brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to enable us to build a world-class business development organization," stated Adam Stedham, President of GP Strategies. "I am confident this will drive new client acquisition and strategic account expansion."
"I have a deep belief in GP Strategies' future and am excited to bring my experience to this progressive organization with an incredible history of working with some of the most respected companies in the world," stated Becker. "Our unmatched content, global capabilities and significant expertise provide an unprecedented opportunity to help both individuals and companies achieve their full potential."
About GP Strategies
GP Strategies Corporation (NYSE: GPX) is a global performance improvement solutions provider of training, eLearning solutions, management consulting and engineering services. GP Strategies' solutions improve the effectiveness of organizations by delivering innovative and superior training, consulting and business improvement services, customized to meet the specific needs of its clients. Clients include Fortune 500 companies, manufacturing, process and energy industries, and other commercial and government customers.
© 2018 GP Strategies Corporation. All rights reserved. GP Strategies and the GP Strategies logo design are trademarks of GP Strategies Corporation.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gp-strategies-names-russell-becker-as-chief-sales-officer-300578573.html
SOURCE GP Strategies Corporation