Aggressive growth plans call for doubling the number of business centers in coming months
LOUISVILLE, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Office Evolution , the nation’s leading shared office franchisor offering co-working space , conference rooms, private office space , phone answering and business address solutions , announced today that it has expanded its leadership team to support its rapidly growing business.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006595/en/
William L. Edmundson, IV (Photo: Business Wire)
William L. Edmundson, IV has joined the company as its new Chief Operating Officer. Edmundson will be responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operations for both franchise and company-owned locations including driving corporate and franchise unit financial performance, maximizing operational performance and building brand equity. Areas of oversight include corporate and franchise operations, sales and marketing, human resources, technology, and product development.
Edmundson joins Office Evolution with deep experience in the co-working and hospitality industries having served in both consulting and senior leadership roles with several national brands. Most recently, as President and CEO of Abby Executive Suites, he was responsible for maximizing operational and financial performance, as well as standardizing and building brand equity across the office suites chain. He also served as President of Choice Hotels’ Cambria Suites brand, and Vice President of Brand Performance and Support for Hilton Hotels’ Hampton Inns brand. He was previously a Board Member and Secretary of the Global Workspace Association.
“We are delighted to have someone of William’s caliber join our executive team,” said Mark Hemmeter, Founder and CEO of Office Evolution. “William has vast experience in brand building and driving operational excellence for both start-ups and established businesses needing operational improvement and strategic direction. His experience in strategic planning and driving unit profitability, while improving customer experiences will be invaluable to all our stakeholders as we continue our rapid growth trajectory.”
Hemmeter will continue to guide the company’s overall strategic direction and will lead franchise recruitment, new location opportunities , real estate and design, as well as finance and accounting.
In other corporate staffing news, Eileen Proctor was appointed to the new position of Vice President of Revenue Optimization and Marketing. Eileen is responsible for optimizing unit economics and speed to profitability for Office Evolution’s business centers across the country, as well as corporate marketing.
Since beginning to franchise in 2012, the Company has granted 48 franchise licenses, representing 125 business centers in 24 states across the nation. In the last 12 months alone, the company has opened 9 new business centers and has signed franchise agreements for an additional 60 business centers. As a result, the company received several prestigious awards in 2017 recognizing its rapid growth and substantial value proposition including being ranked by the Inc. 5000 as one of the fastest growing private companies in the U.S. Earlier in 2017, Office Evolution was ranked #4 on the 2017 Entrepreneur Magazine Top New Franchise and Business Opportunity list and #106 on their coveted Franchise 500 list.
About Us
Founded in 2003, Office Evolution is a Colorado-based national B2B shared office franchise offering co-working spaces, virtual office services and fully furnished offices and suites. The Company now has more than 125 locations open or under development across the country. This unprecedented growth is part of the reason that the company was recognized on the 2017 Inc. 5000 list and that Entrepreneur Magazine ranked Office Evolution #106 on their coveted 2017 Franchise 500 and #4 on their 2017 Top New Franchise and Business Opportunity list. Office Evolution franchisees come from a diverse group of backgrounds and the company is increasingly attracting multi-unit franchisees in their system. Visit www.officeevolution.com for more company information or for franchising opportunities www.officeevolutionfranchise.com or call 877.475.6300.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006595/en/
Office Evolution
Media Inquiries:
Melodye R. Demastus, 614-579-9192
mdemastus@melroseconsulting.com
or
Franchising and Company Inquiries:
Eileen Proctor, 303-376-6220
eproctor@officeevolution.com
Source: Office Evolution