VALLEY CITY, Ohio, Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Shiloh Industries, Inc. (NASDAQ:SHLO), a leading global supplier of lightweighting, noise, and vibration solutions to the automotive, commercial vehicle and other industrial markets, today reported fourth-quarter and full-year financial results for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
Fourth-Quarter 2017 Highlights (compared to Fourth-Quarter 2016):
Revenues decreased to $264.2 million. Gross profit of $28.3 million with a gross margin of 10.7%. Net loss was $0.9 million or 4 cents per share. Adjusted earnings per basic share was 13 cents. Adjusted EBITDA was $18.3 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 6.9%. New product wins represented an expected $213 million in sales over the life-of-programs.
Full-Year 2017 Highlights (compared to Full-Year 2016):
Revenues were $1,042.0 million compared to $1,065.8 million, with improved margins. Gross margin increased 200 basis points to 11.0% compared to 9.0%, benefiting from favorable product mix and operational efficiencies. Gross profit increased 18.7% to $114.1 million, compared to $96.2 million, reflecting an increase of $18 million on lower revenues. Basic net loss per share was 4 cents, compared to basic net income per share of 21 cents. Basic adjusted earnings per share of 53 cents compared to 59 cents. Adjusted EBITDA was $75.6 million compared to $63.3 million, a 19.5% improvement. Adjusted EBITDA margin improved 140 basis points to 7.3% compared to 5.9%. Cash flows from operating activities generated $76.3 million for the year. Debt was reduced by $75.9 million. New product wins represented an expected $661 million in sales over the life-of-program.
“Fiscal 2017 was a year of meaningful improvement for Shiloh as we continued to make gains transforming from a process company to a value-added product company,” said Ramzi Hermiz, President and Chief Executive Officer, of Shiloh Industries. “We delivered improved mix, higher margins and record Adjusted EBITDA, while providing our customers with leading product solutions supported by excellence in service. During the fourth quarter, we took important steps to optimize our footprint and realign resources as we focus on continued profit improvement, while also better preparing for potential changes in the cycle. We remain encouraged about the long-term drivers of demand for our lightweighting solutions.”
Restructuring Actions
During the fourth quarter, the Company incurred restructuring expense of $4.8 million, primarily due to the initiation of actions to idle its Pendergrass facility. This action is designed to improve future profitability and competitiveness. The largest portion of the restructuring expenses is related to non-cash asset impairment costs associated with footprint rationalization and mix shift away from commodity products. In addition, we will implement restructuring measures to improve the overall enterprise structure to proactively address the shift in consumer preferences to trucks and SUVs away from passenger cars and the need for incremental lightweighting technologies.
2018 Outlook
Shiloh is introducing guidance for the full year fiscal 2018 with adjusted EBITDA in a range of $73 million to $76 million and an adjusted EBITDA margin range of 7.4% to 7.8%. Additionally, the Company expects annual capital expenditures to be approximately 4% to 5% of revenue.
Shiloh to Host Conference Call Today at 8:00 A.M. ET
Shiloh will host a conference call on Friday, January 5, 2018 at 8:00 A.M. Eastern Time to discuss Shiloh's fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 fiscal financial results. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 1-877-407-0784, or for international callers, 1-201-689-8560. Please dial-in approximately five minutes in advance and request the Shiloh fourth-quarter fiscal 2017 results conference call. A replay will be available after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-844-512-2921, or for international callers, 1-412-317-6671. The passcode for the replay is 13674798. The replay will be available until January 26, 2018. Interested investors and other parties may also listen to a simultaneous webcast of the conference call by logging onto the Investor Relations section of Shiloh's website at www.shiloh.com .
Investor Contact:
For inquiries, please contact Thomas Dugan, Vice President Finance and Treasurer at: 1-330-558-2600 or at investor@shiloh.com
About Shiloh Industries, Inc.
Shiloh Industries, Inc. (NASDAQ:SHLO) is a global innovative solutions provider focusing on lightweighting technologies that provide environmental and safety benefits to the mobility market. Shiloh designs and manufactures products within body structure, chassis and powertrain systems, leveraging one of the broadest portfolios in the industry. Shiloh’s multi-component, multi-material solutions are comprised of a variety of alloys in aluminum, magnesium and steel grades, along with its proprietary line of noise and vibration reducing ShilohCore™ acoustic laminate products. The strategic BlankLight®, CastLight® and StampLight® brands combine to maximize lightweighting solutions without compromising safety or performance. Shiloh has over 3,600 dedicated employees with operations, sales and technical centers throughout Asia, Europe and North America.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made by Shiloh in this press release regarding our operating performance, events or developments that we believe or expect to occur in the future, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or which relate to future sales, earnings expectations, cost savings, awarded sales, volume growth, earnings or general belief in our expectations of future operating results are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are made on the basis of management's assumptions and expectations. As a result, there can be no guarantee or assurance that these assumptions and expectations will in fact occur. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to materially differ from those contained in the statements due to a variety of factors, including (1) our ability to accomplish our strategic objectives; (2) our ability to obtain future sales; (3) changes in worldwide economic and political conditions, including adverse effects from terrorism or related hostilities; (4) costs related to legal and administrative matters; (5) our ability to realize cost savings expected to offset price concessions; (6) our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses , including businesses located outside of the United States; (7) risks associated with doing business internationally, including economic, political and social instability, foreign currency exposure and the lack of acceptance of our products; (8) inefficiencies related to production and product launches that are greater than anticipated; (9) changes in technology and technological risks; (10) work stoppages and strikes at our facilities and that of our customers or supplie