NEW YORK, WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on NGD, ABX, AUY, and FNV which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . Today, WallStEquities.com features New Gold Inc. (NYSE AMER: NGD), Barrick Gold Corp. (NYSE: ABX), Yamana Gold Inc. (NYSE: AUY), and Franco-Nevada Corp. (NYSE: FNV). Gold prices are influenced by numerous variables that include fabricator demand, expected inflation, return on assets, and central bank demand. Gold is strongly pegged to supply-and-demand patterns. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
New Gold
Last Friday, shares in Toronto, Canada headquartered New Gold Inc. ended the session 0.93% lower at $3.19. The stock recorded a trading volume of 4.93 million shares, which was above its three months average volume of 4.68 million shares. The Company's shares are trading slightly below their 50-day moving average by 0.21%. Furthermore, shares of New Gold, which engages in the development and operation of mineral properties, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 47.47.
On January 16 th , 2018, New Gold (NGD) announced its Q4 2017 and full-year production results. In Q4 2017, the Company delivered record quarterly gold production of 154,446 ounces, including Peak Mines, resulting in full-year gold production of 430,864 ounces. NGD's Q4 copper production of 28 million pounds was slightly higher than the first three quarters of 2017 and the prior-year quarter. Full-year copper production of 104 million pounds was higher than prior-year production and achieved the Company's 2017 guidance range of 100 to 110 million pounds. Get the full research report on NGD for free by clicking below at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=NGD
Barrick Gold
Toronto, Canada headquartered Barrick Gold Corp.'s stock finished 0.34% lower at $14.75 with a total trading volume of 7.92 million shares. The Company's shares have gained 1.24% in the last month. The stock is trading above its 50-day moving average by 3.03%. Moreover, shares of Barrick Gold, which engages in the exploration and development of mineral properties in the US, Canada, Australia, Argentina, Chile, Peru, the Dominican Republic, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania, Zambia, and Saudi Arabia, have an RSI of 51.99.
On January 11 th , 2018, Barrick Gold (ABX) announced that it will release its Q4 2017 results on February 14 th , 2018, and will hold a conference call and webcast on February 15 th , 2018, at 8:00 am ET. The webcast and presentation materials will be available on the Company's website. Additionally, ABX will host its 2018 Investor Day webcast on February 22 nd , 2018, from 2:00 to 5:00 pm ET. Download our actionable research report on ABX at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=ABX
Yamana Gold
Shares in Toronto, Canada-based Yamana Gold Inc. closed the day 2.81% higher at $3.66. The stock recorded a trading volume of 13.45 million shares, which was above its three months average volume of 10.57 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 16.56% in the last month, 45.24% over the previous three months, and 15.46% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 25.20% and 34.10%, respectively. Moreover, shares of Yamana Gold have an RSI of 68.65.
On January 11 th , 2018, Yamana Gold announced that it will release its Q4 and full-year 2017 operational and financial results after market close on February 15 th , 2018, followed by a conference call and webcast on February 16 th , 2018, at 9:00 a.m. ET. The webcast of the conference call can be accessed on the Company's website.
On January 26 th , 2018, research firm Credit Suisse upgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Neutral' to 'Outperform'. Register for your free report coverage on AUY at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=AUY
Franco-Nevada
Toronto, Canada headquartered Franco-Nevada Corp.'s shares recorded a trading volume of 402,291 shares last Friday. The stock closed 0.62% higher at $78.03. The Company's shares have advanced 24.21% over the past year. The stock is trading 2.14% above its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of Franco-Nevada have an RSI of 45.37.
On January 22 nd , 2018, Franco-Nevada announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, Franco-Nevada (Barbados) Corporation, has agreed to acquire a precious metals stream on Korea Resources Corp.'s 10% indirect interest in the Cobre Panama project for US$178 million. The terms are the same as the US$178 million precious metals stream announced in September, in connection with First Quantum Minerals Ltd.'s acquisition of a separate 10% interest from LS-Nikko Copper Inc. Get the free research report on FNV at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=FNV
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit
https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
 : releases/this-mornings-research-reports-on-gold-stocks----new-gold-barrick-gold-yamana-gold-and-franco-nevada-300589372.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities