IRVING, Texas, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- 7-Eleven, Inc., the premier name and largest chain in the convenience-retailing industry, today announced that it has closed on the acquisition of approximately 1,030 Sunoco convenience stores located in 17 states. This acquisition is the largest in 7-Eleven, Inc. history and will bring the total number of stores to approximately 9,700 in the U.S. and Canada.
"Part of what makes brand 7-Eleven so iconic is our global presence and our continued growth," said Joe DePinto, 7-Eleven President and Chief Executive Officer. "The acquisition of over 1,000 Sunoco stores supports our accelerated growth strategy, and we look forward to serving these great new customers."
The APlus, Laredo Taco, Ladson Grill and Stripes brands will continue to serve customers as the acquisition is completed.
Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., the parent company of 7-Eleven, Inc., operates more than 65,000 stores in 18 countries globally.
About 7-Eleven, Inc.
7‑Eleven, Inc. is the premier name and largest chain in the convenience-retailing industry. Based in Irving, Texas, 7‑Eleven ® operates, franchises and/or licenses more than 65,000 stores in 18 countries, including 11,600 in North America. Known for its iconic brands such as Slurpee ® , Big Bite® and Big Gulp®, 7-Eleven has expanded into high-quality salads, side dishes, cut fruit and protein boxes, as well as pizza, chicken wings, cheeseburgers and hot chicken sandwiches. 7-Eleven offers customers industry-leading private-brand products under the 7-Select® brand including healthy options, decadent treats and everyday favorites, at an outstanding value. Customers also count on 7-Eleven for bill payments, self-service lockers and other convenient services. Find out more online at www.7-Eleven.com , via the 7Rewards® customer-loyalty platform on the 7-Eleven mobile app, or on social media at Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/7-eleven-inc-completes-acquisition-of-1030-sunoco-stores-300586666.html
SOURCE 7-Eleven, Inc.