An under-the-radar dogs of the world strategy that works 
The IMF continues to look for more structural changes from Argentina. A report last month praised a tax-reform bill that would lower income taxes for lower-income workers and trim Social Security contributions in exchange for making more income taxable. The IMF also wants to see changes in labor markets and a crackdown on corruption. 
The bad news is that inflation remains high and unemployment is about 9 percent, with 30 percent of workers working off the books. Gross domestic product growth is still below the country's capacity, at about 2.75 percent expected for this year. show chapters 12:34 PM ET Tue, 23 Jan 2018 | 01:32 
"Policy changes have put the economy on a stronger footing and eliminated most of the most urgent macroeconomic imbalances," the IMF said. "Progress on supply-side reforms will support growth, raise productivity, incentivize private investment and erode some of the currency overvaluation. Reforms will need to make sure that the benefits from stronger growth extend to all parts of society, lowering poverty, improving job quality and reducing [participation in the off-the-books economy], particularly for the young and for women." 
A midterm election last October consolidated Macri's control, which is positive for Argentine stocks, said Verena Wachnitz, manager of the $683 million T. Rowe Price Latin America Fund , which has gained 30 percent in the last year. 
While undoing the capital controls brought a wave in new commitments from companies in 2015, a 2016 dip in investments makes it unclear how quickly companies are following through on those promises. Argentina's stock market diversifies 
A very important long-term trend is that the Argentine market is getting more diversified and includes more companies as well as industries to invest in, the T. Rowe Price manager said. Financials, oil and gas, utilities, infrastructure and even some tech companies are coming to the market. Its best-known, homegrown company is the e-commerce company MercadoLibre , which is incorporated in the United States. 
For the time being, though, Argentina is considered a "frontier" market, less advanced even than emerging markets like Brazil or China, and it's not included in the index that Wachnitz's fund uses as a benchmark. While the opportunity set is expanding, the country has yet to prove that its economy has become more stable, and hence it remains a risky market to invest in, she said. 
That's why she thinks another positive would come if the nation is added to Morgan Stanley's emerging-market indices, expanding the range of investors looking at the country's equity market. Argentina has room to grow because its corporate debt levels are lower than in other Latin nations and companies can borrow more now that lenders don't consider Argentina as risky, and a better economic outlook is driving demand for credit, she said. 
There are only a few exchange-traded funds that specialize in Argentina, and they are fairly small. The purest Argentina play is the The Global X MSCI Argentina ETF ( ARGT ), which holds only $219 million in assets under management. Its largest holdings are MercadoLibre, which has nearly doubled in the last year; oil-drilling supplier Tenaris; and the bank Grupo Financiero Galicia.— By Tim Mullaney, special to CNBC.com Tim Mullaney Special to CNBC.com Related Securities