HOUSTON, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- GS Marketing, Inc., a leading automotive marketing company headquartered in Houston, Texas with offices in Louisville, Kentucky, today announces a rebrand to GSM . The rebrand reflects both the company's evolution as well as its vision for the future.
The rebranding process involved many aspects, beginning with the adoption of a new name. GS Marketing is transitioning to GSM . A new logo accompanies an overall brand refresh and delivers a contemporary look and feel—just in time for its 30th anniversary!
"2018 marks the 30th anniversary of GSM. We recognized that it was time for our branding and website to reflect the success and transformation of our company," said the company's president, Shelley Washburn. "The goal of the rebrand is to mark this new era in our evolution, solidifying our vision for the future—as THE name in automotive marketing. We will do whatever it takes to make each client look like a rock star." GSM has a spectacular team who helps their clients identify their specific marketing needs, and delivers the right solutions. GSM takes care of the marketing, so their clients can focus on the bigger picture.
GSM has a robust history of delivering a unique blend of expertise and solutions that drive profitability for its clients. In business for over three decades, GSM continues to work with the best brands in the automotive industry, offering leading edge omnichannel solutions for acquisition and retention—the cornerstones of GSM's success story.
For GSM, rebranding showcases the years of success it has already achieved but also presents what is to come—innovative marketing solutions and groundbreaking work.
Please visit www.gsmarketing.com to explore the new website and learn more about what makes GSM THE name in automotive marketing.
About GSM
GSM is a full-service marketing company specializing in omnichannel solutions for our automotive partners. We have a passion for our clients' success. From customer acquisition and retention programs to lead-generating marketing campaigns, we do whatever it takes to offer the best solutions, the most impactful results, and legendary customer service. GSM is part of The Friedkin Group, a consortium of automotive, hospitality, entertainment, golf and adventure companies led by Chairman and CEO Dan Friedkin.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gsm--leader-in-automotive-marketing-celebrates-30th-anniversary-with-rebrand-300586338.html
SOURCE GSM