PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Wireless Telecom Group, Inc. (NYSE American:WTT), a leading global provider enabling the development, testing and deployment of wireless communication solutions, announced today that Chris Newton has been named the Vice President of Global Sales for its subsidiary, Microlab. Chris joined Wireless Telecom Group in June 2016 as Microlab’s Vice President of Sales for the Americas.
Chris will be responsible for generating sales and driving growth of Microlab’s small cell solutions, RF conditioning components supporting network densification, and the expansion of our GPS repeater solutions worldwide. He will lead the direct sales and channel partner strategy to drive new business, penetrate emerging markets, and deliver first class customer support.
“Since joining Wireless Telecom Group, Chris has demonstrated excellent leadership in the sale, support and promotion of our products and he has driven the success of new business in small cell deployments and large venue installations,” said Tim Whelan, CEO of Wireless Telecom Group. Whelan continued, “As we continue to expand the Microlab product line, Chris’ customer focused approach will ensure that we strengthen our partnerships with new and existing channels and customers worldwide. We are confident his new leadership role and deep industry expertise will continue to promote Microlab success and growth globally.”
Mr. Newton brings over 25 years of experience in the telecommunications industry and a proven track record of new product approvals in ILEC/RBOC accounts and all Tier 1 Wireless carriers. He previously served as VP of Sales for TE Connectivity, NextWave Broadband and ADC Telecommunications.
About Wireless Telecom Group
Wireless Telecom Group, Inc. , comprised of Boonton Electronics, CommAgility, Microlab and Noisecom, is a global designer and manufacturer of advanced RF and microwave components, modules, systems and instruments. Serving the wireless, telecommunication, satellite, military, aerospace, semiconductor and medical industries, Wireless Telecom Group products enable innovation across a wide range of traditional and emerging wireless technologies. With a unique set of high-performance products including peak power meters, signal analyzers, signal processing modules, LTE PHY and stack software, power splitters and combiners, GPS repeaters, public safety monitors, noise sources, and programmable noise generators, Wireless Telecom Group supports the development, testing, and deployment of wireless technologies around the globe.
Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.’s website address is www.wtcom.com . Except for historical information, the matters discussed in this news release may be considered "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include declarations regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company and its management. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could materially affect actual results. Such risks and uncertainties are identified in the Company's reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006060/en/
Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.
Maria Droge , (973) 386-9696
Source: Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.