Facebook reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings and revenue on Wednesday that crushed expectations, as it made more money than expected from each user.
But shares fell as much as 4.5 percent after hours after the company said it had made changes, including a crackdown on viral videos , that reduced the amount of time users spent on its social network.
EPS: $2.21 vs. $1.95 expected by a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate Revenue: $12.97 billion vs. $12.55 billion expected by a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate Daily active users: 1.4 billion vs. 1.41 billion expected by a StreetAccount estimate Monthly active users: 2.13 billion vs. 2.13 billion expected by a StreetAccount estimate ARPU: $6.18 vs. $5.90 expected by a StreetAccount estimate That's compared to earnings of $1.41 per share on revenue of $8.81 billion in the year-ago period. Usership also rose about 14 percent from a year ago on both a daily and monthly basis.
The cost of 'fixing' Facebook Facebook 's fourth quarter marks the close of 2017's fiscal year, one of the company's more difficult years as a public company — and it showed in the company's earnings report.
"Already last quarter, we made changes to show fewer viral videos to make sure people's time is well spent. In total, we made changes that reduced time spent on Facebook by roughly 50 million hours every day," co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in the earnings release.
Zuckerberg had vowed to fix the issues at the social network, after a series of headlines highlighted botched advertising metrics and targeting tools. Critics have also raised concerns about censorship, safety and the addictive qualities of social media. But perhaps the most pervasive issue has been evidence that Russian actors may have used social media or "fake news" as a tool to influence the last U.S. presidential election.
The solutions to these problems could require future hits to Facebook's top and bottom lines. The company said that " some measures of engagement " may fall as the News Feed shifts away from featuring publisher content — which could affect Facebook's advertising business.
Facebook has also pledged to double its 10,000-person safety and security staff by end of 2018. These changes would all come on top of ongoing projects for the company, like investments in data centers to support more video, and an effort to limit the number of ads, or "ad load," on the platform.
Facebook said that its staff has already swelled 47 percent over the past year. Eighty-nine percent of advertising revenue came from mobile users.
"2017 was a strong year for Facebook, but it was also a hard one," Zuckerberg said.
Nonetheless, Facebook still has new revenue sources it can mine for growth, including its ownership of WhatsApp, Instagram and Oculus, none of which have been heavily monetized.
Advertising revenue at Facebook grew 48 percent from a year ago.
And like many companies, Facebook will face new tax benefits after a recent federal overhaul.
Facebook also said that as a result of the tax bill there was an additional $2.27 billion in taxes for 2017, decreasing diluted earnings by 77 cents per share for both the fourth quarter and all of last year. But paying that tax will free Facebook to bring back overseas cash at a lower tax rate.
show chapters Facebook beats the Street 15 Mins Ago | 02:15