SAN ANTONIO, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- InGenesis, Inc., one of the largest workforce solutions companies in the United States and the largest diversity-owned healthcare staffing firm in the nation, announced today the acquisition of the healthcare specialty business of Kelly Services ® . The privately-held, San Antonio-based company inked the deal on the eve of their 20 th anniversary. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
"We have enjoyed and look forward to a continued relationship with Kelly Services. We understand and mirror their level of quality, caliber of personnel and welcome the opportunity to service the distinguished clientele portfolio they have built," said Dr. Veronica Muzquiz Edwards, chief executive officer of InGenesis.
InGenesis currently manages thousands of healthcare professionals at hundreds of client locations across the country. This acquisition expands the company's portfolio, further solidifying InGenesis as a top-tier supplier, fueled by their exceptional access to high-demand healthcare professionals. Kelly employees will transition to InGenesis. No positions were eliminated as a result of the acquisition.
"We are thrilled with this acquisition as it blends the storied tenure of Kelly's healthcare business with our focused innovation," said Dr. Edwards. She expects to deliver uninterrupted services, as well as compliant integration of all programs, while maintaining patient safety standards.
"This deal provides a win for both InGenesis and Kelly Services," said John Drew, vice president and managing director, Kelly Services. "InGenesis has been a partner for many years and has a well-earned reputation for creating and providing excellent service to clients. Their expertise in the field of healthcare will allow this segment to flourish, as well as provide unsurpassed solutions to this customer base."
InGenesis' comprehensive service portfolio includes managed service programs, recruitment process outsourcing, consulting and staffing solutions. Its Malcolm Baldrige-aligned processes have earned The Joint Commission's Gold Seal of Approval® and have influenced global best practices. "We are currently working with 32 countries to develop global ISO standards for healthcare staffing," said Dr. Edwards. "Our collaboration with leading institutions, healthcare facilities and subject matter experts is just one of the many innovative differentiators our clients and employees will appreciate."
The transaction will be completed in February 2018 and is fully financed by InGenesis, underscoring two decades of financial growth and independence without relying on outside investors.
About InGenesis
InGenesis, Inc. is a privately-owned workforce solutions firm founded by Dr. Veronica Edwards in 1998. The company's dedication to quality, innovation, and customer service has made InGenesis one of the largest workforce solutions firms in the United States. The company is one of the only staffing firms to earn a certification from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for its quality improvement organization. InGenesis is based in San Antonio, Texas with 50 satellite locations in the United States, including a second headquarters in the San Francisco Bay Area. For more information, please visit InGenesis.com .
About Kelly Services ®
As a global leader in providing workforce solutions, Kelly Services, Inc., (Nasdaq: KELYA) (Nasdaq: KELYB) and its subsidiaries, offer a comprehensive array of outsourcing and consulting services as well as world-class staffing on a temporary, temporary-to-hire, and direct-hire basis. Kelly directly employs nearly 500,000 people around the world in addition to having a role in connecting thousands more with work through its global network of talent suppliers and partners. Revenue in 2016 was $5.3 billion. Visit kellyservices.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ingenesis-acquires-the-healthcare-specialty-business-of-kelly-services-300580349.html
SOURCE InGenesis, Inc.