WAHPETON, N.D., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Red River Valley & Western Railroad (RRVW) is pleased to announce that effective January 1, 2018, it will be led by the new executive leadership team of Victor (Vic) Meyers as president and Mark Wegner as chief executive officer.
Board Chair, Martha Head, is very pleased with the new team. "I have had the opportunity to work closely with Mark and Vic at Twin Cities & Western Railroad (TC&W). I know that the strategic thinking, leadership skills, operational knowledge, commitment to safety, concern for employees and customer service they have brought to TC&W will be invaluable to RRVW."
Vic Meyers most recently served as vice president of operations of TC&W, headquartered in Glencoe, Minnesota, where he provided leadership and guidance for the company's long-range strategic plan as well as day-to-day operations support to ensure the safe, effective and efficient movement of freight rail transportation services throughout TC&W's operating territory. In this role, he had direct leadership responsibilities for multiple departments including Transportation/Operations, Maintenance of Way, Mechanical, Safety, Accounting, Human Resources, Administration and Information Technology.
Vic joined TC&W in 2013. Prior to that he worked for more than seven years at BNSF Railway in a variety of positions. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in economics from Rocky Mountain College and a Master of Business Administration degree from Texas Christian University.
Mark Wegner is the current president and CEO of TC&W. He will continue in these positions while adding service as the chief executive officer of RRVW to his leadership responsibilities.
At TC&W, Mark provides strategic direction, governmental relations and overall operational oversight for the 229-mile regional short line railroad, which runs between St. Paul, Minnesota and Milbank, South Dakota and for its subsidiaries, the Minnesota Prairie Line, operating 94 miles of track between Norwood Young America and Hanley Falls, Minnesota, and the Sisseton-Milbank Railroad, operating 37 miles of track between its namesake cities in South Dakota.
Mark joined TC&W in 1991 as its accounting manager and served as comptroller, senior vice president and general manager, executive vice president and chief operating officer, and president before becoming chief executive officer in 2014.
Mark is a native of Brooklyn Center, Minnesota. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree – accounting from the College of St. Thomas (now University of St. Thomas), St. Paul, Minnesota.
Ms. Head said, "Mark and Vic are the right people at the right time for RRVW. I am confident that their personal integrity and values and their professional talents and experience will provide the strong foundation needed to move RRVW successfully forward into the future."
Red River Valley & Western Railroad commenced operations in 1987 as a regional short line railroad serving customers in North Dakota and Minnesota. RRVW trains run over 500 miles of track and recently celebrated its 30 th anniversary and its one-millionth carload. The company continues to invest in its people, facilities and equipment to meet the needs of the communities it serves.
Ms. Head added, "Freight rail transportation is vital to the communities we serve in North and South Dakota and Minnesota. The new leadership team at RRVW is committed to working as a partner with those communities and our customers to provide safe, dependable, efficient and high quality transportation of products and commodities to market."
For more information on RRVW and TC&W, visit www.rrvw.net and www.tcwr.net .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/red-river-valley--western-railroad-appoints-victor-meyers-president-mark-wegner-is-chief-executive-officer-300578088.html
SOURCE Red River Valley & Western Railroad