SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Sientra, Inc. (NASDAQ:SIEN) (“Sientra” or the “Company”), a medical aesthetics company, today announced that on January 19, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved equity award grants under the Sientra Inc. Inducement Plan to 46 new employees, including to 39 new employees in connection with the Company’s acquisition of miraDry, Inc. (f/k/a Miramar Labs, Inc.).
The new employees were granted restricted stock units representing a total of 257,235 shares of common stock. The restricted stock units will vest in three equal annual installments beginning on the grant date. In each case, the vesting of shares is contingent upon the individual’s continued employment with the Company through each vesting date.
The grants were made as an inducement that was a material component of each person’s compensation and subsequent acceptance of employment with the Company or joining Sientra’s subsidiary following Sientra’s acquisition of miraDry, Inc. and was granted as an employment inducement award pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5635(c)(4) approved by the Compensation Committee.
About Sientra
Headquartered in Santa Barbara, California, Sientra is a medical aesthetics company committed to making a difference in patients’ lives by enhancing their body image, growing their self-esteem and restoring their confidence. The Company was founded to provide greater choice to board-certified plastic surgeons and patients in need of medical aesthetics products. The Company has developed a broad portfolio of products with technologically differentiated characteristics, supported by independent laboratory testing and strong clinical trial outcomes. The Company sells its breast implants and breast tissue expanders exclusively to board-certified and board-admissible plastic surgeons and tailors its customer service offerings to their specific needs. The Company also offers a range of other aesthetic and specialty products including BIOCORNEUM®, the professional choice in scar management, and miraDry, the only FDA cleared device to reduce underarm sweat, odor and permanently reduce hair of all colors.
Investor Contacts:
Patrick F. Williams
Sientra, Chief Financial Officer
(619) 675-1047
patrick.williams@sientra.com
Tram Bui / Brian Johnston
The Ruth Group
(646) 536-7035 / (646) 536-7028
IR@sientra.com
Source:Sientra, Inc.