MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- TEGNA Inc. (NYSE: TGNA) today announced Brad Ramsey has been named president and general manager of WFAA in Dallas, TX. Ramsey will replace Michael Devlin who previously announced his retirement. Devlin will remain at WFAA through early February to ensure a smooth transition.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005725/en/
Brad Ramsey (Photo: Business Wire)
Ramsey is returning to TEGNA where he previously served as vice president of sales for the company and president and general manager of WVEC in Norfolk, VA. Most recently, Ramsey was vice president of business strategy for The Center for Sales Strategy, a sales performance consulting company. In that role, Ramsey worked with businesses across the country, including TEGNA, to help attract, retain and develop high-performing sales talent.
“Brad is a well-respected industry veteran who knows TEGNA and WFAA well. He understands the connection WFAA has to its audience, customers and community,” said Lynn Beall, executive vice president and chief operating officer, media operations, TEGNA. “Brad will continue to build on the great work Mike and the WFAA team are doing to embrace innovation, connect with our audiences and increase engagement on all devices. We’re excited to welcome Brad back into the TEGNA family.”
Prior to joining TEGNA, Ramsey served as vice president and general manager of WCAV-WVAW-WAHU in Charlottesville, VA. Ramsey also worked in a variety of news, sales and management roles at WHSV in Harrisonburg, VA.
Ramsey graduated from Virginia Tech with a Bachelor of Arts degree and a Masters of Business Administration. He will re-locate to the Dallas area with his wife and two sons.
About TEGNA
TEGNA Inc. (NYSE: TGNA) is an innovative media company that serves the greater good of our communities. With 46 television stations in 38 markets, TEGNA delivers relevant content and information to consumers across platforms. It is the largest owner of top 4 affiliates in the top 25 markets, reaching approximately one-third of all television households nationwide. Each month, TEGNA reaches 50 million adults on-air and 35 million across its digital platforms. TEGNA has been consistently honored with the industry’s top awards, including Edward R. Murrow, George Polk, Alfred I. DuPont and Emmy Awards. TEGNA delivers results for advertisers through unparalleled and innovative solutions including OTT local advertising network Premion , centralized marketing resource Hatch, and G/O Digital , a one-stop shop for local businesses to connect with consumers through digital marketing. Across platforms, TEGNA tells empowering stories, conducts impactful investigations and delivers innovative marketing solutions. For more information, visit www.TEGNA.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005725/en/
TEGNA Inc.
For media inquiries, contact:
Steve Kidera
Manager, Corporate Communications
703-873-6434
skidera@TEGNA.com
or
For investor inquiries, contact:
Jeffrey Heinz
Vice President, Investor Relations
703-873-6917
jheinz@TEGNA.com
Source: TEGNA Inc.