412 COMMENTS Democrats responded to President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union speech by describing his initial year in office as one defined by anxiety and fear, with the White House pitting Americans against one another and encouraging the nation’s darkest impulses.
Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D., Mass.) delivered his party’s response from a vocational high school in Fall River, Mass., where he urged opponents of the administration to continue rallying against a Trump policy agenda that, in his view, presents Americans with “one false choice after another.”
Related Video President Donald Trump's first State of the Union focused on infrastructure, immigration and the strength of Americans. Watch the highlights in three minutes. Photo: Getty While lamenting the “fault lines of a fractured country,” Mr. Kennedy celebrated the protests sparked during the past year by a White House that he said places outsize importance on “your net worth, your celebrity, your headlines, your crowd size.”
“They are turning life into a zero-sum game where, in order for one to win, another must lose,” Mr. Kennedy said at the school, about 50 miles south of the Boston suburb where he lives.
Related
In State of the Union, Trump Vows Optimism as More Fights Loom Recap: Trump’s State of the Union Address Capital Journal: Trump Tries On New Role as Optimist Transcript of the State of the Union Address A descendant of one of the nation’s most prominent political dynasties, Mr. Kennedy was one of five Democrats to deliver responses to the president on Tuesday, a sign of the discord within the minority party one year into the Trump era. While Mr. Kennedy delivered the party’s official response, there was also a Spanish-language speech from Virginia state House Delegate Elizabeth Guzman and an address from Sen. Bernie Sanders, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, that aired on social media.
Former Rep. Donna Edwards of Maryland spoke on behalf of the Working Families Party, which is often aligned with Democrats, while Rep. Maxine Waters of California was scheduled to deliver her rebuttal during a Wednesday night special on BET.
Ms. Edwards suggested that there was no rift on the left. In a tweet on Monday, she said the multiples addresses were designed for “many audiences, multiple platforms, reaching people no matter where they are.”
Trump’s State of the Union in Superlatives “Same message, different voices, all calling out this president and his dangerous, destructive, and divisive agenda,” she wrote on Twitter.
In his speech, designed to paint his party as representative of middle class America, Mr. Kennedy largely avoided policy specifics while painting a broad, Democratic vision for the country. He said that undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers, “are a part of our story.” He said Democrats supported higher wages, paid leave for parents and affordable child care.
Newsletter Sign-up Overlapping with some of Mr. Trump’s themes, Mr. Kennedy called for fairness in international trade pacts and an upgrade of the nation’s roads and bridges.
But Mr. Kennedy made clear that any alignment on policy shouldn’t be confused with approval of Mr. Trump’s opening year on the job.
Write to Michael C. Bender at Mike.Bender@wsj.com