OAKLAND, Calif., Jan. 4, The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) announced today that it will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community about its second-quarter fiscal year 2018 results on Friday, Feb. 2.
The webcast is scheduled to begin at 10:30 a.m. PT (1:30 p.m. ET) and can be accessed at Clorox investor events . A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX ) is a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with more than 8,100 employees worldwide and fiscal year 2017 sales of $6 billion. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products; Pine-Sol ® cleaners; Liquid Plumr ® clog removers; Poett ® home care products; Fresh Step ® cat litter; Glad ® bags, wraps and containers; Kingsford ® charcoal; Hidden Valley ® dressings and sauces; Brita ® water-filtration products; Burt's Bees ® natural personal care products; and RenewLife ® digestive health products. The company also markets brands for professional services, including Clorox Healthcare® and Clorox Commercial Solutions ® . More than 80 percent of the company's sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories.
Clorox is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, a community of global leaders committed to sustainability. The company also has been broadly recognized for its corporate responsibility efforts, most notably receiving a Safer Choice Partner of the Year Award in 2016 and 2017 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as well as being named to CR Magazine's 2017 Best Corporate Citizens list and included in the 2016 Newsweek Green Rankings. The Clorox Company and its foundations contributed about $11 million in combined cash grants, product donations and cause marketing in fiscal year 2017. For more information, visit TheCloroxCompany.com , including the Good Growth blog, and follow the company on Twitter at @CloroxCo.
CLX-F
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/clorox-announces-feb-2-webcast-of-second-quarter-fiscal-year-2018-results-300577994.html
SOURCE The Clorox Company