20-year Real Estate Executive Brings Institutional Level C-Suite Expertise to RealtyMogul
LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- RealtyMogul , a pioneer in providing private real estate to discerning investors, today announced the addition of Aaron Halfacre as President.
As RealtyMogul’s President and a member of the executive team, Mr. Halfacre will be responsible for crafting company-wide strategy, driving execution and augmenting business growth. He will be a voting member of the firm’s investment committee, which has invested in over $1.4 billion of real estate since 2013. Additionally, with direct oversight of capital markets activity, he will be particularly focused on further growing assets under management and real estate transaction volume.
With over 20 years of investment industry experience and a reputation for strategic insight, Mr. Halfacre most recently served as President and Chief Investment Officer at Campus Crest, a publicly traded student housing Real Estate Investment Trust or “REIT,” where he was instrumental in shepherding the successful $1.9 billion take-private transaction of the company. Prior to Campus Crest, Mr. Halfacre was an executive of Cole Real Estate Investments, a publicly traded net lease REIT, where he acted as a key member working on transactions in excess of $10 billion total market capitalization.
“I am excited to be joining the RealtyMogul team and contributing to the continued success of the company,” said Aaron Halfacre. “I believe my industry experience across real estate and alternatives, debt and equity, retail and institutional, and both public and private markets is a perfect fit for RealtyMogul’s future.”
Prior to his public REIT experience, Mr. Halfacre spent time at BlackRock, the world’s largest investment manager, serving as the Chief of Staff and Head of Product Development for BlackRock’s Global Real Estate Group, where he led the development of over $3 billion of private real estate product. During his time at BlackRock, he also served as the Chief Operating Officer of a $14 billion global equities investment team. In addition to BlackRock, Mr. Halfacre worked at Green Street Advisors, a leading independent REIT research and analytics firm. Mr. Halfacre holds both the Chartered Financial Analyst® and Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst® designations and an MBA in Finance from Rice University.
“We are very pleased to have Aaron join the team; he has a stellar track record and incredible depth of real estate and capital markets industry expertise that will prove invaluable to the company,” said Jilliene Helman, CEO of RealtyMogul. “We will benefit immensely from his experience, and I am confident he will help the company reach new heights.”
About RealtyMogul
RealtyMogul is a unique commercial real estate private markets investing platform that provides discerning investors exclusive access to thoroughly vetted opportunities, rigorous underwriting, and high-touch customer service through licensed investment professionals. We strive to build wealth through sound principles and data insights, serving real people who want a smart alternative investing strategy.
We offer capital financing opportunities to qualified real estate companies, and through our rigorous vetting we are able to hand-select opportunities for our discerning investors.
RealtyMogul offers securities through North Capital Private Securities Corporation, member FINRA/SIPC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005246/en/
Media Inquiries:
RealtyMogul
Brian Chui
Director, Brand Marketing & Communications
424-276-1152
brian.chui@realtymogul.com
Source: RealtyMogul