GREEN BAY, Wis., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Associated Banc-Corp (NYSE: ASB) ("Associated") announced today that it has received regulatory approvals for the acquisition of Bank Mutual Corporation (Nasdaq: BKMU) ("Bank Mutual") from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board. Associated and Bank Mutual entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") on July 20, 2017, pursuant to which Bank Mutual will merge with and into Associated ("Merger"). The Merger is expected to close on February 1, 2018, subject to customary closing conditions. Associated expects to merge Bank Mutual's banking subsidiary with and into Associated's banking subsidiary, Associated Bank, N.A., late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter of 2018.
About Associated Banc-Corp
Associated Banc-Corp (NYSE: ASB) has total assets of $30 billion and is one of the top 50 publicly traded U.S. bank holding companies. Headquartered in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Associated is a leading Midwest banking franchise, offering a full range of financial products and services from over 200 banking locations serving more than 100 communities throughout Wisconsin, Illinois and Minnesota, and commercial financial services in Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Texas. Associated Bank, N.A. is an Equal Housing Lender, Equal Opportunity Lender and Member FDIC. More information about Associated Banc-Corp is available at www.associatedbank.com.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" Statements made in this presentation which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This includes any statements regarding management's plans, objectives, or goals for future operations, products or services, and forecasts of its revenues, earnings, or other measures of performance. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "estimate," "should," "will," "intend," "outlook" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements include those identified in the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.
Media Contact: Jennifer Kaminski, 920-491-7576
Investor Contact: Jessica VandenHeuvel, 920-491-7059
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/associated-banc-corp-receives-regulatory-approvals-for-bank-mutual-corporation-acquisition-300587035.html
SOURCE Associated Banc-Corp