UNION, Ill., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- INTREN, LLC is proud to announce that former ICC Commissioner Sherina Maye Edwards has been formally appointed to the INTREN Board, effective immediately.
As the fourth INTREN Board Member, Sherina joins Board Chairwoman Loretta Rosenmayer, CEO Kelly Tomblin and President Lance Rosenmayer, along with leadership representing One Equity Partners, Senior Managing Director James Cherry, Managing Director Andrew Oliver and Director Matthew Hughes.
"I am pleased to bring Sherina Maye Edwards to the INTREN Board," said Loretta Rosenmayer. "With her immense knowledge and insight, she will play an integral role in guiding INTREN into the future."
Appointed to a 5-year term in 2013, Sherina was the youngest commissioner ever to be selected for the ICC. Since her appointment, she has been actively involved in the National Association for Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) serving as Chair on both the Subcommittee on Pipeline Safety, and the Subcommittee on Supplier and Workforce Diversity.
A woman frequently recognized for her leadership, Sherina was selected to join the ranks of the distinguished list of fellows for the Leadership Greater Chicago in 2015, and was named a 2017 Eisenhower Fellow where she served as an Ambassador for the United States in South Africa and Australia.
A long-time champion for diversity and inclusion, Sherina founded the Women's Energy Summit, a national event focused on vital issues in the energy industry. She also is a founding member and current president for the Women's Energy Network Chicago, as well as a member of the board of directors for the Girl Scouts of Greater Chicago and Northwest Indiana.
Prior to her ICC appointment, Sherina was an attorney for Locke Lord LLP, where she focused on business and consumer finance litigation.
Sherina has a J.D. from Howard University School of Law and a B.A. in Psychology from Spelman College.
About INTREN
For 29 years, INTREN has been an innovative solution partner, dedicated to building and maintaining the infrastructure of the energy industry. The company's culture of stewardship guides INTREN to care for others' priorities as if they were their own. Through a commitment to safety, integrity, customer focus and employee empowerment, the company has succeeded in offering turnkey services to a long list of satisfied clients. INTREN is proud to serve many of the country's foremost utility companies, contractors and developers, municipalities and cooperatives. www.INTREN.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/former-icc-commissioner-sherina-maye-edwards-appointed-to-intren-board-of-directors-300583209.html
SOURCE INTREN, LLC