MARTINSVILLE, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The board of directors of Carter Bank & Trust (OTC:CARE) today announced the appointment of Michael Bird of Roanoke, Virginia, and Catharine Midkiff of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, as independent directors. Bird will serve on the board’s audit and Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance committees, with Midkiff on loan and investment.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005661/en/
Catharine Midkiff (Photo: Business Wire)
Bird has more than 30 years of experience in the long-term care industry. He is the chief financial officer of Virginia Lutheran Homes Inc., which owns and operates a continuing-care retirement community and a nursing and rehabilitation center both in Roanoke and two rent-subsidized apartments with supportive services in Virginia Beach and New Market. Prior to this, Bird served as chief financial officer of Waveny Care Network, a provider of long-term care, assisted living, independent living and home healthcare in New Canaan, Connecticut.
Bird earned his bachelor’s degree in accounting from Central Connecticut State University in New Britain and MBA from Sacred Heart University in Fairfield, Connecticut.
Midkiff worked for more than 20 years as an executive with General Electric Capital Corporation in risk management, operations and finance in its Asia, Europe and United States markets. Prior to this, she served as vice president and director in other GE financial entities located in the United States, Japan, Korea, Thailand and Hong Kong.
A certified public accountant, Midkiff has a bachelor’s degree in commerce with a specialization in finance and accounting from the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. She is certified in Six Sigma as a master black belt, the highest level credential in management techniques to improve business processes, primarily by reducing risks, and has completed numerous specialty programs, such as an asset-based finance program from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and the Commercial Finance Association.
Chairman of the Board Jim Haskins said, “This is an exciting time at Carter Bank & Trust. We are aggressively positioning ourselves to be a high-performing community bank. The appointment of these two exceptional new board members further supports this direction. Mike and Catharine are accomplished leaders and will bring valuable perspectives to our team.”
About Carter Bank & Trust:
Headquartered in Martinsville, Virginia, Carter Bank & Trust is a state-chartered community bank in Virginia with more than 100 branches and 1,000 employees in Virginia and North Carolina.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005661/en/
Carter Bank & Trust
Kim Adkins
Vice President & Director of Marketing
276.336.4384 (direct)
276.252.2679 (cell)
Source: Carter Bank & Trust