0 COMMENTS Good morning and happy new year! Before we dive into the biggest marketing and media stories you may have missed over the holidays, CMO Today’s Alex Bruell has rounded up the top advertising business questions for the year ahead , from whether Amazon will build itself into an advertising powerhouse to whether consulting firms will start to become a real threat to agencies. One thing not in doubt: It’s going to be another exciting (and busy) year for the CMO Today team.
Tears for Sears Which TV ads did you most enjoy watching over the holidays? Geico’s penguins? Spotify making Ed Sheeran bite the head off a gingerbread version of himself? Did you “ Dilly Dilly ”? In all the excitement, you may not have realized there was a notable absence from the proceedings this year. As The Wall Street Journal reported, struggling retail company Sears Holdings hasn’t run a paid national TV ad for either its Sears or Kmart brands since late November . Instead, Sears has allocated more of its budget to digital and social, with the company’s chief executive, Edward Lampert, arguing those channels are more cost-effective and quantifiable. That said, it’s highly unusual for a brick-and-mortar retailer to back off TV during the holidays, not least as rivals like Macy’s and J.C. Penney shelled out tens of millions of dollars on national TV ads in December to generate brand awareness and drive store visits. Plus, according to sources, some Sears executives had produced data showing that cutting TV and newspaper advertising over the past couple of years had hurt sales—but they were overruled. Those Christmas e-commerce sales figures better be good!
Run Rabbit Run When Hugh Hefner died in September, there was no doubt it marked the end of an era for his Playboy empire. What many people might not be aware of, however, is that as part of an arrangement when Playboy was taken private in 2011, his death triggered a call option that gives the company’s controlling shareholder , private-equity firm Rizvi Traverse, exclusive rights to buy the 35% stake Mr. Hefner left in trust to his heirs, WSJ’s Lukas Alpert reports. Rivzi wants to speed up Playboy’s transition “from a media business to a brand-management company,” according to Ben Kohn, a Rizvi managing partner who took over as Playboy CEO. That means seriously considering the future of the loss-making flagship magazine and doubling down on efforts to make money from brand partnerships and licensing deals. Results have been mixed from such deals to date and, after a 2017 in which Merriam-Webster declared “feminism” the word of the year, Playboy’s execs could have a big marketing challenge to convince certain potential partners it has shaken off its hedonistic past and that Playboy is a 21st century brand they should be playmates with.
Don’t Skip Me ‘Cause I’m Close to the Edge Lots of internet users have developed a new trigger-happy behavior, where almost as soon as they encounter an ad, they find the speediest way to skip it. That’s an issue when the industry standard for “viewable” video ads is two seconds. Snapchat, where users tend to already have their thumbs hovering over the screen as they flick between short videos and photos, is reportedly considering a new ad unit that forces viewers to watch for three seconds before they can skip , according to Ad Age. That could see Snap offering something similar to YouTube’s “TrueView” ad format, where users can’t skip until after five seconds and advertisers only pay if a user interacts with a video or watches 30 seconds (or the duration if the run-time is shorter). Such ads could help the company drive up its rates, which dropped by 60% on average in the last quarter as more marketers bought Snap ads using its self-serve platform.
—The Story of My Life—
While we’re on the subject of Snap, here’s a story you may have missed over the festive period: Cheddar’s Alex Heath reported the company is working on a “Stories Everywhere” feature that will allow user-generated Snapchat Stories to be easily shared outside the app for the first time. Snap has reportedly hired Rahul Chopra, who recently was the CEO of News Corp’s Storyful, to lead the initiative. Stories Everywhere could serve as a useful marketing tool to drive usage of Snapchat and might see its exec team talk up a Twitter-like “total audience” number that would include people who view snaps but don’t necessarily use the app.
Listen Up For internet advertisers and ad tech companies, it’s important not to cross the “creepy” line. So how do we feel about gaming apps that use a smartphone’s microphone to identify what’s being watched on TV in the background, even when you’re not playing the game? The New York Times did some digging into Alphonso, a startup that offers just that to provide marketers with TV-viewing data that helps them better target and measure the effectiveness of their ads. Alphonso says it complies with FTC guidelines and that consumers knowingly opt in and can opt out at any time. A noteworthy snippet: Alphonso reportedly has a data deal with Shazam, the music recognition app that you’ll recall was snapped up by Apple late last year. Given Apple’s strong stance on user privacy, which prompted the introduction of a strict “Intelligent Tracking Prevention” feature last year, it’ll be interesting to watch whether that partnership continues going forward.
Best of the rest Facebook acknowledged its content reviewers had made mistakes in decisions over 22 of a sample of 49 posts flagged as offensive hate speech by users and highlighted by ProPublica’s investigations team. Facebook Vice President Justin Osofsky said the company must do better and added that Facebook will double the size of its safety and security team to 20,000 people in 2018. [ ProPublica ]
Here’s a must-read deep-dive into how difficult it is working as a content moderator for platforms like Facebook, Google and anonymous social app Whisper. [ WSJ ]
A group of Hollywood A-Listers and other prominent women within the entertainment industry have launched an initiative called “Time’s Up” to tackle sexual harassment in the workplace, with a focus on blue-collar industries. Many stars announced their involvement with social media posts, using the #TimesUp hashtag. [ Variety ]
Music video company Vevo says it grew its revenue by 30% to about $650 million in 2017, thanks in part to advertisers concerned about brand safety shifting to its platform from YouTube. [ Financial Times ]
Veteran TV news executive David Bohrman is launching a new over-the-top video service called the Political Voices Network, aiming to a reach an audience of progressive Americans on the left side of the political spectrum. The revenue model will be a mix of advertising and subscriptions. [ Axios ]
NBC News has named Hoda Kotb as a permanent co-anchor of the “Today” show alongside Savannah Guthrie. Ms. Kotb had been filling in since Matt Lauer was fired from the program in November for inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace. [ NBC News ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com