BEIJING, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lincoln International ("Lincoln"), a leading global mid-market investment bank, is pleased to announce that on December 14th, SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice Co., Ltd ("SDICZL" or the "Company") has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Poland Appol Group ("Appol"). This is the Company's first acquisition under the Chinese "Belt and Road" initiatives, connecting the EU and Chinese markets by investing in Poland. Terms of the transaction were disclosed in SDICZL's announcement in the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
Founded in 1994, Appol is the leading independent apple juice manufacturer in Poland and the leading Polish NFC apple juice manufacturer. Appol has three manufacturing plants, which are all located in the core apple planting areas of Poland, with a total production of 18,500 MT fruit juice concentrates and 16,500 MT NFC juices in 2016. Appol supplies juice products predominantly to EU countries.
SDICZL is controlled by China's National Development Investment Group Co., Ltd. (formerly State Development & Investment Corporation) and is listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. SDICZL is one of the largest fruit juice concentrate producers in China with 90% of its products exported worldwide. The Appol acquisition establishes SDICZL's first manufacturing base outside of China and is a key part of SDICZL's globalization production layout strategy.
Lincoln International acted as the exclusive financial advisor for SDICZL. Lincoln's team from China and Austria worked closely with the Company's management team throughout the acquisition process. This included providing advisory during the auction process, valuation analysis, due diligence, SPA negotiation and communication with Chinese regulatory authorities.
For more information on Lincoln's Global Food & Beverage Sector, please visit http://www.lincolninternational.com/industries/food-beverage/ .
About Lincoln International
Lincoln International specializes in merger and acquisition advisory services, debt advisory services, private capital raising and restructuring advice on mid-market transactions. Lincoln International also provides fairness opinions, valuations and joint venture and partnering advisory services on a wide range of transaction sizes. With nineteen offices in the Americas, Asia and Europe, Lincoln International has strong local knowledge and contacts in key global economies. The firm provides clients with senior-level attention, in-depth industry expertise and integrated resources. By being focused and independent, Lincoln International serves its clients without conflicts of interest. More information about Lincoln International can be obtained at www.lincolninternational.com .
Media Contact: Heidi Becker
+1 (312) 506-2739
hbecker@lincolninternational.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lincoln-international-advises-sdic-zhonglu-fruit-juice-co-ltd-in-its-acquisition-of-appol-group-300577854.html
SOURCE Lincoln International LLC