PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cinemark Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CNK), a leading motion picture exhibitor, announced today that Sean Gamble has been named Chief Operating Officer in addition to his current role as Chief Financial Officer. Cinemark has also expanded the leadership team with the appointment of Wanda Gierhart to Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005223/en/
Cinemark appoints Gierhart to CMO (Photo: Business Wire)
With Mr. Gamble’s Chief Operating Officer promotion he will take on further responsibility for global content programming, business development, purchasing and investor relations, while maintaining oversight for Cinemark’s financial operations, information technology and advanced analytics.
Mr. Gamble has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Cinemark since August 2014. Prior to joining Cinemark, Mr. Gamble worked for the Comcast Corporation as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Universal Pictures within NBCUniversal. He also held multiple senior leadership positions within the General Electric Company. Mr. Gamble graduated Summa Cum Laude from Bucknell University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering.
"Sean has proven himself to be an outstanding partner in overseeing the Company’s financial direction, operational execution, strategic vision and growth initiatives," stated Mark Zoradi, Chief Executive Officer. "He has been deeply involved in the Company’s cross-departmental business decisions and has added tremendous value with his extensive financial and operational education and experience. We are thrilled to recognize his significant contributions with this promotion.”
Mr. Zoradi continued, “We are also incredibly pleased to welcome Wanda to our Cinemark family and executive leadership team. Wanda’s extensive retail marketing background will provide great insights and augment the strength of our global marketing organization.”
Ms. Gierhart is a thought-leader in customer engagement strategies and has been named as a “Top Woman in Cross-Channel Retailing” and as Brand Innovators “Top 50 Women in Brand Marketing.” She played a key role in driving the Omni-Channel strategic vision and subsequent transformation of the NMG brand by enabling a customer to shop any time and from any mobile device. She has also been recognized for her ability to drive a brand, engage audiences and positively impact customer behavior.
Before joining Cinemark, Ms. Gierhart served as Chief Marketing Officer for several organizations, including Neiman Marcus Group, Design Within Reach and Limited Brands. Ms. Gierhart has executive leadership experience as President and CEO of TravelSmith. Wanda holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from University of Nebraska.
About Cinemark Holdings, Inc.
Cinemark is a leading domestic and international motion picture exhibitor, operating 533 theatres with 5,957 screens in 41 U.S. states, Brazil, Argentina, and 13 other Latin American countries as of September 30, 2017. For more information, please visit investors.cinemark.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005223/en/
Cinemark Holdings, Inc.
Financial Contact :
Chanda Brashears, 972-665-1671
cbrashears@cinemark.com
or
Media Contact:
Lanay Stokes, 972-665-1060
communications@cinemark.com
Source: Cinemark Holdings, Inc.