MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Flex Logix™ Technologies, Inc., the leading supplier of embedded FPGA (eFPGA) IP and software, announced today that Valy Ossman has been named technical director, solutions architecture, reporting to Tony Kozaczuk, director of solutions architecture. Valy brings more than 20 years of experience in networking and chip architecture to Flex Logix. He will play a key role in helping the company develop innovative architectural solutions for networking applications and SoCs that enable its customers to utilize eFPGA to improve the flexibility and capability of their chip architectures.
"We are honored to have someone with Valy's experience and technical depth in ASICs, FPGAs and networking, which will be key to driving customer application and integration of eFPGAs into new architectures," said Tony Kozaczuk, director, solutions architecture. "eFPGA enables networking chips and systems to support reconfigurable design blocks as well as reconfigurable architectures. This allows flexible implementation of protocols for packets, security, storage and machine learning throughout the data center, resulting in greater flexibility, performance and return-on-investment."
Valy attended Ben Gurion University in Israel for his BSc in EE and worked as a VLSI engineer/team leader at Galileo (now Marvell), Cisco and Siliquent (now Broadcom) in Israel before co-founding Tehuti Networks. Later, Valy joined Passave (acquired by PMC) working on fiber-to-the-home optical communications SoCs as a systems architect then as part of the CSTO Office of PMC when he relocated to Silicon Valley. Valy was also senior group director of FPGA prototyping platforms at Cadence where he managed the R&D and customer support teams.
About Flex Logix
Flex Logix, founded in March 2014, provides solutions for reconfigurable RTL in chip and system designs using embedded FPGA IP cores and software. The company's technology platform delivers significant customer benefits by dramatically reducing design and manufacturing risks, accelerating technology roadmaps, and bringing greater flexibility to customers' hardware. Flex Logix has secured approximately $13 million of venture backed capital, is headquartered in Mountain View, California and has sales rep offices in China, Europe, Israel, Japan, Taiwan and Texas. More information can be obtained at http://www.flex-logix.com or follow on Twitter at @efpga.
MEDIA CONTACTS
Kelly Karr
Tanis Communications
kelly.karr@taniscomm.com
+408-718-9350
Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. Flex Logix is a trademark and EFLX is a registered trademark of Flex Logix, Inc.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/flex-logix-names-valy-ossman-technical-director-solutions-architecture-300577764.html
SOURCE Flex Logix Technologies, Inc.