Marketing Associates USA provides Vistra with 40 years of brand management and event marketing coupled with award winning creative strategic solutions.
TAMPA, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Communications strategy and professional solutions agency Vistra Communications LLC, (Vistra), has announced the acquisition of Marketing Associates USA, a Tampa-based, award-winning creative marketing, promotional and branding agency specializing in a broad range of proven marketing strategies and services for major corporations and federal government agencies. The agreement between Vistra and Marketing Associates provides an immediate enhancement of creative, branding, traditional and experiential marketing services to the Vistra portfolio.
“The combination of Vistra with Marketing Associates provides our clients an amazing suite of communications and marketing services uniquely designed to help them reach their goals,” said President and CEO of Vistra, Brian Butler. “This acquisition is part of our long-term strategy of growing our large corporate client portfolio, while extending our government services.”
The acquisition of Marketing Associates enhances the ability for Vistra to leverage its SBA 8(a) Certified and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) credentials with large corporations and federal government contracts.
“The Vistra Communications acquisition further enhances Marketing Associates' portfolio of services, capabilities and offerings for its clients including national corporations and nonprofit organizations,” said Jeff Darrey, CEO and Founder of Marketing Associates USA. "Our business values are closely aligned with those of Vistra, further supporting the new relationship.”
Marketing Associates USA will leverage Vistra’s existing infrastructure to provide marketing strategies and capabilities to clients. “The integration of both companies will become effective Jan. 2, 2018, which coincidentally happens to be the 40-year anniversary of the founding of Marketing Associates by Darrey,” added Butler. “All of our clients will continue to receive the same high-quality services which they have come to expect.”
Marketing Associates USA will become Marketing Associates – A Division of Vistra. On the effective date, the entire Marketing Associates staff will become Vistra team members.
Butler and Darrey were originally introduced to discuss their shared interest in Trinity Cafe, a not for profit restaurant that has unconditionally served more than 1.3 million meals to the homeless and those in need in an environment of love, care, dignity and respect. Butler has been a strong supporter, encouraging the Vistra team members to volunteer at Trinity Cafe. Darrey is the board chair of Trinity and founding director. Their mutual interest in service work and charitable passions led to extensive business discussions.
Butler founded Vistra in 2007 after a successful U.S. Army career and the growing agency now consists of 70 employees.
As a small business with large agency experience and expertise, Vistra employees are passionate about producing results for clients. Offering services for a variety of local and national businesses and nonprofit organizations, as well as local, state and federal government agencies, Vistra works closely with clients to build successful strategies designed to help them reach their goals. Team members value meaningful relationships, quality service and treating others with dignity and respect while also making a difference in the community.
Vistra was revered as the 2016 Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce’s Small Business of the Year in the 21-50 employee category. Butler was also a finalist for Outstanding Small Business Leader of the Year during the ceremony. The annual award distinguishes the exemplary leaders of business enterprises that have a tremendous impact on the Tampa community.
About Vistra Communications
Vistra is a nationally-recognized, full-service, communications strategy and professional solutions agency headquartered in Tampa, Florida providing services to corporate, government and nonprofit clients. Vistra is SBA 8(a) Certified and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB). The company was named the 2016 SBA South Florida Region Service Disabled Veteran Owned Business of the Year, Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce’s Small Business of the Year as well as ranked number one in the Top PR Firms in the Tampa Bay area according to the Tampa Bay Business Journal. For more information about Vistra, please call 813.961.4700 or visit www.ConsultVistra.com . For more information about Marketing Associates USA, visit www.MAIUSA.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005911/en/
Vistra Communications
Media Contact
Steven Hendricks, 813-961-4700, ext. 201
StevenH@ConsultVistra.com
Source: Vistra Communications