NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on MTBC, CERN, INOV, and MDSO which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . This morning, WallStEquities.com scans Medical Transcription Billing Corp. (NASDAQ: MTBC), Cerner Corp. (NASDAQ: CERN), Inovalon Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: INOV), and Medidata Solutions Inc. (NASDAQ: MDSO). Healthcare Information Services companies provide data, products, and services to customers, ranging from hospitals and physician practices to pharmaceutical and biotech companies to private individuals. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below. http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
Medical Transcription Billing
Somerset, New Jersey headquartered Medical Transcription Billing Corp.'s stock finished Tuesday's session 1.94% higher at $3.67. A total volume of 744,005 shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 661,750 shares. The Company's shares have surged 37.97% in the past month, 31.54% in the previous three months, and 358.75% over the past year. The stock is trading 26.89% above its 50-day moving average and 76.79% above its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of the Company have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 66.81.
On January 29 th , 2018, Medical Transcription Billing (MTBC) announced that Saint Anthony Health Affiliates, a Chicago-based affiliate of Saint Anthony Hospital, has expanded its relationship with MTBC to include physician revenue cycle management for its radiology group. Saint Anthony Health Affiliates is an independent, non-profit, faith-based, acute care, community hospital dedicated to improving the health and wellness of the families on the West Side and Southwest Side of Chicago. Get the full research report on MTBC for free by clicking below at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=MTBC
Cerner
On Tuesday, shares in North Kansas City, Missouri headquartered Cerner Corp. recorded a trading volume of 2.82 million shares, which was above their three months average volume of 2.05 million shares. The stock ended the session 0.92% higher at $69.36. The Company's shares have advanced 2.11% in the last month, 6.20% in the previous three months, and 31.02% over the past year. The stock is trading 0.33% above its 50-day moving average and 3.42% above its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Cerner have an RSI of 49.57.
On January 10 th , 2018, Cerner announced that it has appointed Brent Shafer, previous CEO of Philips North America, as its CEO and chairman of the board of directors, effective February 01 st , 2018. CERN Co-Founder Cliff Illig, who has served as interim CEO and Chairman of the Board since July 2017, will resume his role as Vice Chairman of the Board, effective that same date.
On January 19 th , 2018, research firm Evercore ISI initiated an 'In-line' rating on the Company's stock, with a target price of $77 per share. Download our actionable research report on CERN at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CERN
Inovalon Holdings
Bowie, Maryland headquartered Inovalon Holdings Inc.'s shares closed the day 1.14% lower at $13.00. The stock recorded a trading volume of 304,197 shares. The Company's shares have gained 15.04% over the past year. The stock is trading 9.31% below its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of Inovalon have an RSI of 36.60.
On January 08 th , 2018, Inovalon announced preliminary unaudited expected results forQ4 and full year 2017. For Q4 2017, revenue is expected to be between $113.5 million to $115.0 million, and adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $23.5 million to $27.5 million. For the full year 2017, revenue expected to be between $448.2 million to $449.7 million, and adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $107.0 million to $111.0 million. Register for your free report coverage on INOV at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=INOV
Medidata Solutions
Shares in New York headquartered Medidata Solutions Inc. finished 1.80% lower at $69.16. The stock recorded a trading volume of 417,877 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 6.35% in the last month and 41.81% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day moving average by 3.60%. Furthermore, shares of Medidata Solutions have an RSI of 58.37.
On January 25 th , 2018, Medidata Solutions announced that it will release its Q4 2017 financial results pre-market on February 08 th , 2018. Tarek Sherif, CEO, and Rouven Bergmann, CFO, will hold a conference call at 8:00 a.m. ET that same day to discuss the Company's results and business outlook. A simultaneous, live audio webcast of the call will be available under the "Investor" section of the Company's website. Get the free research report on MDSO at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=MDSO
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/this-mornings-research-reports-on-healthcare-information-services-stocks----medical-transcription-billing-cerner-inovalon-and-medidata-solutions-300590943.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities