0 COMMENTS Endeavor has agreed to acquire branding and marketing agency 160over90, as the entertainment and sports giant aims to bulk up its marketing services arm.
Endeavor--the new name for the entertainment conglomerate formed after WME’s acquisition of IMG--agreed to purchase the shop from private-equity firm Searchlight Capital Partners.
While terms weren’t disclosed, a person familiar with the matter said the price was approximately $200 million.
The agency, which has about 180 employees, will be housed within Endeavor Global Marketing, the division that in recent years has acquired experiential agencies IMG LIVE and Fusion Marketing, as well as public relations firm Catalyst. Endeavor also has a stake in ad agency darling Droga5.
With its latest acquisition, Endeavor aims to bolster its existing strategy, sponsorship activation and talent management offerings with digital marketing and branding services capabilities, said Mark Shapiro, co-president of WME and IMG, which still exist as independent businesses within Endeavor.
“As the business continues to move away from the 30-second spot and into a full-fledged focus on experiences, we want to be fully armed and stand out with a unique platform,” he said. The 160over90 agency “can enhance the platforms and channels and content that we are creating and producing for our clients, from Hollywood to sports.”
160over90 handles branding and marketing for a number of colleges, sports teams and brands, including Ferrari, the Indianapolis Colts, the Philadelphia Eagles, UCLA and Under Armour .
These are “all worlds we know very well,” said Mr. Shapiro.
Endeavor similarly works with a number of sports teams, universities and brands, but in a different capacity. Endeavor’s offerings span talent management for celebrities and athletes, and experiential marketing and sponsorship strategy for brands. For higher education institutions, Endeavor handles things like ticketing for games and selling sponsorships throughout stadiums and on campuses, as well as merchandising and licensing.
Endeavor’s and 160over90’s services will complement each other, said Mr. Shapiro. For example, Endeavor, which works with Visa on sponsorship strategy, could “enhance” its current client relationship with the digital and mobile capabilities of 160over90.
In addition to using 160over90 to help Endeavor expand its business with professional sports leagues, he said that the agency could “come in and develop and execute digital marketing programs” for artists, fashion models and athletes that the company represents, among other clients.
“You have to really look inside your own walls and figure out where you have gaps or disciplines that need to be enhanced,” he said. “Your failure to do that by organic growth or consolidation will leave you in the dust.”
The deal came to the company’s attention initially as an investment opportunity, and quickly turned into an acquisition proposition, he said. It all came together in under 60 days, he added.
After raising a “considerable amount of capital,” closely held Endeavor plans to further enhance its existing offerings through “bolt-on acquisitions,” said Mr. Shapiro. Endeavor investors include Fidelity, Sequoia Capital, SoftBank and Tencent, among others.