MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- RSi - Retail Solutions, Inc., announced today that Kirk Wheeler has been named Senior Vice President of Global Sales. Wheeler will report to RSi Chief Executive Officer Bert Clement. Wheeler will be responsible for leading all business development and sales growth worldwide for RSi.
"Kirk is well-respected in the CPG and retail industries for his significant expertise in new business development, strategic marketing planning, and the ability to create profitable long-term customer relationships," said Clement. "He brings an in depth SaaS-based applications knowledge and expertise in leveraging predictive and prescriptive analytics to this role. This will be key in supporting our strategic partners' journey — from data to insights to results — as well as establishing new relationships for RSi."
Previous to RSi, Wheeler was Vice President, Global Sales and Solutions, at Genpact and was responsible for selling and leading global analytic and research capabilities within the CPG and retail channels. Prior to Genpact, Wheeler was Executive Vice President and General Manager at Manthan, a producer of retail and CPG business intelligence, advanced analytics and optimization solutions. Wheeler also spent five years with IRI as Senior Vice President establishing top to top relationships with leading CPG companies.
"I am excited to lead the RSi team and help bring new value to customers by leveraging all of RSi's innovative analytic capabilities," said Wheeler. "RSi is the global leader in demand data and retail execution. We will continue on this path and offer our partners the most innovative approaches to help them drive value and sales."
About Retail Solutions, Inc.
RSi - Retail Solutions, Inc. transforms data into value -- in the store, on the shelf and with shoppers worldwide. To achieve operational excellence and measure performance daily, the world's leading companies turn to RSi to transform their data into actionable insights. As the leader in data management and retail execution, our goal is to bring operational clarity to our customers so they can operate their businesses more successfully. From solving out-of-stocks to driving inventory down, from optimizing sales strategies to determining marketing ROI, RSi helps cut costs and improve sales. For over 13 years we have been a trusted, massive data and analytics partner with more than 225 retailers and over 500 CPG companies, including such household names as Colgate-Palmolive, Nestlé, the Procter & Gamble Company and Unilever. To learn more about the company, visit: www.retailsolutions.com
Media Relations
Jessica Tobey
Industry Relations Manager
Jessica.tobey@retailsolutions.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rsi---retail-solutions-inc-hires-industry-veteran-to-run-sales-worldwide-300590214.html
SOURCE Retail Solutions, Inc.