CAMARILLO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Salem Media Group (NASDAQ: SALM) announced today that Lorenzo Caldara has been appointed as General Manager for its Philadelphia cluster of radio stations ( WFIL-AM and WNTP-AM ). Prior to joining Salem, Lorenzo spent 25 years at WKXW/New Jersey 101.5 News/Talk. Over his tenure, Lorenzo received numerous promotions from Account Executive through the ranks to General Sales Manager, Director of Sales, General Manager, and Vice President/Corporate Director of Sales.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005396/en/
Lorenzo Caldara (Photo: Business Wire)
Salem Vice President of Operations, Jeff Reisman, commented, “Lorenzo brings a track record of leadership that will be instrumental in growing the Salem Philadelphia radio stations to their full potential. Out of an excellent field of men and women interested in this opportunity, we are convinced Lorenzo is the right leader for this important market.”
Follow us on Twitter @SalemMediaGrp .
ABOUT SALEM MEDIA GROUP:
Salem Media Group is America’s leading multimedia company specializing in Christian and conservative content, with media properties comprising radio, digital media and book and newsletter publishing. Each day Salem serves a loyal and dedicated audience of listeners and readers numbering in the millions nationally. With its unique programming focus, Salem provides compelling content, fresh commentary and relevant information from some of the most respected figures across the Christian and conservative media landscape.
The company is the largest commercial U.S. radio broadcasting company providing Christian and conservative programming. Salem owns and/or operates 120 radio stations, with 75 stations in the top 25 media markets. Salem Radio Network (“SRN”) is a full-service national radio network, with nationally syndicated programs comprising Christian teaching and talk, conservative talk, news, and music. SRN is home to many industry-leading hosts including: Hugh Hewitt, Mike Gallagher, Dennis Prager, Michael Medved, Larry Elder, Joe Walsh and Eric Metaxas.
Salem’s digital media is a leading source of Christian and conservative themed news, analysis, and commentary. Salem’s Christian sites include: Christianity.com®, BibleStudyTools.com , GodTube.com , GodVine.com , Crosswalk.com , ibelieve.com , churchstaffing.com , WorshipHouseMedia.com and OnePlace.com . Salem’s conservative sites include Townhall.com®, RedState.com , HotAir.com , Twitchy.com , and BearingArms.com .
Salem’s Regnery Publishing unit, with a history dating back to 1948, is the nation’s leading independent publisher of conservative books. Having published many of the seminal works of the early conservative movement, Regnery today continues as a major publisher in the conservative space, with leading authors including: Ann Coulter, Dinesh D’Souza, Newt Gingrich, David Limbaugh, Ed Klein and Mark Steyn. Salem’s book publishing business also includes Xulon Press™, a leading provider of self-publishing services for Christian authors and Mill City Press, a general market self-publisher.
Salem's Eagle Financial Publications provides general market analysis and non-individualized investment strategies from financial commentators Mark Skousen, Nicholas Vardy, Bryan Perry, Bob Carlson, Mike Turner and Jim Woods, as well as a stock screening website for dividend investors ( DividendInvestor.com ). The business unit's other investing websites include StockInvestor.com and RetirementWatch.com .
Eagle Wellness, through its website newportnaturalhealth.com , provides insightful health advice and is a trusted source of high quality nutritional supplements from leading health expert, Leigh Erin Connealy MD. Dr. Connealy is the medical director of one of the largest medical practices in the country where she practices integrative medicine.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005396/en/
Salem Media Group
Evan D. Masyr
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
(805) 384-4512
evan@SalemMedia.com
Source: Salem Media Group