LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The global microdissection market is expected to grow at a CAGR of more than 9% from 2018-2022, according to a new market research report by Technavio.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180127005011/en/
Technavio has published a new market research report on the global microdissection market 2018-2022 under their healthcare and life sciences library. (Photo: Business Wire)
Global microdissection market segmentation by end-user and geography
Technavio’s report on the global microdissection market analyses the business dimensions and presents a comprehensive breakdown in terms of market segmentation by end-user, including academic and research centers and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. As projected in 2017, around 40% of the market share originated from academic and research centers. Due to the increasing number of ongoing research studies on chronic diseases and increased funds allocated by government agencies to promote research in fields such as oncology, neurology, and proteomics, the academic and research centers segment is dominating the market with the highest market share.
Based on end-user, the global microdissection market has been segmented into APAC, the Americas, and EMEA. As of 2017, the Americas dominated the market.
“Though the Americas dominated the market in 2017, the market share is expected to decline as it is a highly penetrated market. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the total healthcare expenditure in the US has increased. The market in EMEA is developing due to new trends in the pharmaceutical companies and CROs,” says a senior analyst at Technavio for orthopedics and medical devices research.
Save more with Technavio. Buy 2 reports and get the third for free : View Technavio’s latest discounts and promotions
Microdissection market: competitive vendor landscape
The global microdissection market is moderately concentrated with many new players entering the market. Leica Microsystems, Molecular Machines & Industries, Thermos Fisher Scientific, and Zeiss International are the major contributors in the market. The key vendors are focusing on increasing their global footprint and are expanding into developing countries through mergers and acquisitions or partnerships with the regional vendors.
Looking for more information on this market? Request a free sample report
Technavio’s sample reports are free of charge and contain multiple sections of the report including the market size and forecast, drivers, challenges, trends, and more.
Other topics covered in the report:
Market drivers:
All-inclusive cost structure of sequencing and related products drivers R&D Growing adoption of next-generation sequencing (NGS)
Market challenges:
Lack of skilled technicians High chances of ribonucleic acid (RNA) degradation
Market trends:
Rise in industry-based research collaborations Growing demand for high accuracy forensic tools
Get a sample copy of the global microdissection market report free of cost
Access Technavio’s continuously growing orthopedics and medical devices research library and find expert analysis on hundreds of markets.
About Technavio
Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focuses on emerging market trends and provides actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions.
With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio’s report library consists of more than 10,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio’s comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios.
If you are interested in more information, please contact our media team at media@technavio.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180127005011/en/
Technavio Research
Jesse Maida
Media & Marketing Executive
US: +1 844 364 1100
UK: +44 203 893 3200
www.technavio.com
Source: Technavio Research