NEW YORK, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Vidaris affiliate, IBA Holdings, LLC, announced today that it has acquired C2G International (C2G). Vidaris, Inc. is a leading consulting firm for building envelope, energy efficiency, specialty engineering, code and construction. C2G is a recognized leader in construction-related litigation and dispute resolution support, expert witness services, construction advisory, and project controls including scheduling.
Employing more than 45 professionals, many of whom regularly testify as experts, C2G provides consulting services to clients in the corporate, government, institutional, healthcare, housing, industrial, power and real estate development markets. C2G currently operates throughout the United States and internationally, with primary offices in Southern California and Atlanta, and will continue to conduct business as C2G International, LLC.
“C2G has an impressive record of providing its long-standing clients with best in class services and top-quality work,” said Marc Weissbach, Vidaris’ Chief Executive Officer. “We’re excited to bring C2G into the Vidaris family. This new partnership immediately builds and expands upon the expert services Vidaris provides and allows both firms to continue to expand into new geographic markets.”
Matt Becica and Christopher Anderson, founding members of C2G, said respectively, “We selected Vidaris to be our partner because of its stellar reputation with its clients. We know that they share our commitment to excellence in all aspects of their practice,” and, “Our clients will benefit from access to a broader range of related services that we will now be able to provide through our affiliation with Vidaris, and C2G will have the support of one of the world’s top consulting firms.”
With the acquisition of C2G, the Company is able to offer claim and dispute resolution, program and management consulting, delay and schedule analysis, as well as deep technical expertise of design and construction defects, forensic engineering, root cause and failure analysis, metallurgy, roofing, waterproofing, and building envelope investigations, failures and expert services.
About C2G International
C2G provides construction consulting services in the areas of claim defense and preparation, change order analysis, contract cost reconciliation, CPM scheduling, productivity analyses, engineering and design, contract development, cost audits, lost profit studies, dispute resolution, litigation support, and expert witness testimony across all sectors of the construction industry. www.c2gi.com
About Vidaris
Vidaris, together with its affiliates, assists real estate owners, institutions and other project stakeholders realize their goals and objectives in the areas of building envelope, energy efficiency, construction, code and specialty engineering. The group employs over 275 professionals in fifteen offices. www.vidaris.com
Contact: Michelle Maxwell
Phone: 212.689.5389 Ext. 168
mmaxwell@vidaris.com
www.vidaris.com
Source:Vidaris, Inc.