Veteran tech industry marketing executive to broaden go-to-market strategies and accelerate growth
SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- XIFIN, Inc. , the healthcare information technology company revolutionizing the business of healthcare diagnostics, is pleased to announce that Doug Wheeler has joined the company as chief marketing officer. Wheeler brings a wealth of marketing experience in SaaS, security, cloud, and on-premise B2B and B2C hardware and software solutions to XIFIN, where he will be responsible for driving market expansion for the company’s suite of technology solutions and services for the diagnostic services market.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005373/en/
Doug Wheeler, Chief Marketing Officer, XIFIN (Photo: Business Wire)
“Adding a strategically oriented, high energy marketing veteran like Doug to XIFIN’s management team underscores our commitment to building an executive team that has a proven track record for scaling businesses,” stated XIFIN CEO Lâle White . “Doug will play a significant role in the company’s aggressive customer and partner acquisition goals. Under his dynamic leadership, we expect to leverage our dominant position in the revenue cycle management market and expand to other markets with our innovative technologies and superior services.”
Wheeler has a strong track record of delivering business growth, and is an accomplished senior-level executive with more than 30 years of proven marketing strategy and go-to-market executive skills. In addition to co-founding two start-ups, he previously served as an EVP of global marketing for several large public companies including Compaq, Tandem and Citrix. He also served as the CMO for several VC-funded companies including DocuSign. Wheeler graduated from the Harvard Business School Executive Business Management program and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in computer information systems from Purdue University. He also serves on the corporate board of advisors for Purdue University's School of Technology and is an inductee into the Purdue University distinguished alumni.
“XIFIN and its unique blend of technology and services have become the standard and relied upon partner for laboratories seeking greater profitability and better patient outcomes,” said Wheeler. “I’m eager to have a leadership role in a growth company that delivers incredibly valuable technology solutions, and I am excited to lead marketing initiatives that will further expand the company's market opportunity and growth.”
The addition of Wheeler comes at a time of increasing momentum at XIFIN. The company recently announced its next generation revenue cycle management solution, XIFIN RPM 9 , on which hundreds of laboratories rely to process more than 200 million medical claims annually. In addition, the company launched a next generation sequencing module XIFIN LIS Anywhere for NGS , to expand its laboratory information system. The company was the recipient of numerous awards in 2017, including Frost & Sullivan’s 2017 North American Revenue Cycle Management Company of the Year in the diagnostic laboratory segment, the 2017 TripleTree iAward for clinical connectivity and healthcare economics, and an 11 th time honoree on the 2017 Inc. 5000 Fastest-Growing Private U.S. Companies — an accomplishment that fewer than half of one percent of Inc. 5000 honorees have ever achieved.
About XIFIN, Inc.
XIFIN is a healthcare information technology company that leverages diagnostic information to improve the quality and economics of healthcare. The company’s cloud-based technology facilitates connectivity and workflow automation for accessing and sharing clinical and financial diagnostic data, linking healthcare stakeholders in the delivery and reimbursement of care. To learn more, visit www.XIFIN.com or follow XIFIN on Twitter and LinkedIn . To learn more about XIFIN RPM 9 and to schedule a private meeting or demo, please visit go.xifin.com/RPM9 .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005373/en/
Myla Wagner Public Relations
Myla Wagner, 925-736-7515
myla@mylawagnerpr.com
Source: XIFIN, Inc.