January 28, 2018 / 5:21 AM / Updated 17 minutes ago WRAPUP1-HIGHLIGHTS-Tennis-Australian Open day 14 3 Min Read 
(Updates ‘Read More’ section) 
MELBOURNE, Jan 28 (Reuters) - Roger Federer overcame Marin Cilic 6-2 6-7(5) 6-3 3-6 6-1 in a thrilling Melbourne Park final to win a record-equalling sixth Australian Open trophy and 20th grand slam title of his glittering career. 
Federer prevailed in just over three hours under the Rod Laver Arena roof to become the third man after Roy Emerson and Novak Djokovic to claim six Australian Open titles. 
The Swiss now has four more grand slam titles than his great rival Rafael Nadal. 
Cilic, who knocked out an ailing Nadal in the quarter-finals, showed plenty of courage in his first final appearance at the event as he came from a break down in the fourth set to take the match into a deciding set. 
But despite his big hitting, he could not stop Federer from running away with the title. 
“I‘m so happy, it’s unbelievable,” Federer said with a quivering voice. 
“I‘m happy it’s over, but winning is just an absolute dream come true. The fairytale continues for me. After the great year I had last year, it’s incredible.” 
Addressing the fans, he added: “You guys make me nervous. You guys make me practice. You guys fill the stadiums. Thank you.” 
Earlier, Croatia’s Mate Pavic and Canada’s Gabriela Dabrowski beat India’s Rohan Bopanna and Timea Babos of Hungary 2-6 6-4 (11-9) to win the mixed doubles title. READ MORE 
Federer fights off Cilic to win sixth Australian Open title 
20 majors down, Federer thrilled as fairytale continues 
Weeping Federer hails emotional 20th grand slam title 
Cilic dealt tough hand again against Federer 
Cilic blames closed roof for slow start against Federer 
FACTBOX-List of Australian Open men’s singles champions 
FACTBOX-Australian Open men’s champion Roger Federer 
FACTBOX-Roger Federer’s grand slam records - in numbers 
Roger Federer v Marin Cilic - match stats 
Pavic, Dabrowski win Australian Open mixed doubles 
Highlights of Sunday’s 14th day of the Australian Open, the first grand slam tournament of the year (times in GMT): 1140 FEDERER BEATS CILIC TO WIN AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Federer defeated Cilic 6-2 6-7(5) 6-3 3-6 6-1 to claim a record-equalling sixth Australian Open title and 20th grand slam. 
0836 PLAY UNDERWAY IN MEN‘S FINAL 
The men’s final got underway at the Rod Laver Arena. 0617 DABROWSKI-PAVIC WIN MIXED DOUBLES TITLE 
Dabrowski and Pavic defeated Babos and Bopanna 2-6 6-4 (11-9) in 68 minutes to win the mixed doubles title. (Compiled by Shrivathsa Sridhar; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty and Pritha Sarkar)