Mao Keo joins Albert Technologies, Makers of Autonomous Digital Marketer Albert, to Expand International Partnerships and Channels
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Albert Technologies, ltd (LSE: ALB.L), the AI company behind autonomous digital marketer Albert, today announced the hiring of Mao Keo as its Global VP, Alliances & Channel Development. Keo joins Albert from Adobe, where for over two years she handled international business development for the media and entertainment group, with a specific focus on driving revenue and expanding the international market for Adobe Marketing Cloud for OTT video delivery and advertising. Prior to Adobe, Keo spent 13 years at Oracle, where, in her final four years, she served as Global Business Development Director, SaaS and Cloud. At Albert, Keo will build out Albert’s international partnerships and channels in a concerted effort to expand its global presence.
Albert was founded in Israel in 2010. The company went public on the London Stock Exchange in 2015, and entered the U.S. market as the first major autonomous business AI solution in August 2016. Its rapid adoption by domestic and global brands has led to organic expansion into international markets, including Australia, Brazil the Philippines, and a number of European countries. Keo’s hire formalizes Albert’s newly revealed commitment to work with global partners and bring Albert’s capabilities to their markets.
“Albert’s decision to move into key international markets has been very deliberate,” said Geoff Farris, CRO of Albert, to whom Keo will report. “We defined the new Global VP Role as someone who’s had repeat success accelerating and scaling growth—not only at emerging technology companies, but at larger enterprises, too. Keo moves freely between these two worlds, as well as between the markets we’re specifically eager to move into.”
While at Adobe, Keo’s focus was on driving high revenue and market growth across the Americas, Europe Middle East Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific. She worked directly with international media and entertainment enterprises and partners in local markets to deliver strong revenue growth and product innovation with Adobe Marketing Cloud as their delivery platform for video and digital marketing strategy. At Oracle, Keo built the global SaaS sales strategy and developed its new channel model for recruiting, enabling and generating SaaS revenue through strategic partnerships with Cloud Service Providers, ISVs, and SIs.
“The artificial intelligence space is still very much in early days, so the opportunity to come into an organization that has already truly emerged as the leader in autonomous marketing was too important to pass up,” said Keo. “My enterprise experience and international background paired with Albert’s sophisticated technology and positive industry reception gives us everything we need to expand into new channels and bring growth to the next level.”
Keo is multilingual, with expertise adapting to and working within diverse business cultures. She has relocated to New York City from San Francisco for the new position.
About Albert™
Albert, created by Albert Technologies, LTD. (LSE: ALB.L), is the world’s first and only fully autonomous digital marketer. The enterprise-level artificial intelligence platform drives digital marketing campaigns from start to finish for some of the world’s leading brands. Albert liberates businesses from the data and technology complexities of digital marketing—not just by replicating their existing efforts, but by executing them at a pace and scale not possible by human teams. “He” accomplishes this by wading through mass amounts of data, converting this data into insights, and autonomously acting on these insights, across channels, devices and formats, in real time. Brands such as Harley-Davidson, Gallery Furniture, EVISU, and Dole Asia credit Albert with significantly increased sales, an accelerated path to revenue, the ability to make more informed investment decisions, and reduced operational costs. Visit albert.ai .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005264/en/
Channel V Media
Gretel Going, 212-680-0179
gretel@channelvmedia.com
Source: Albert Technologies, ltd