SILVER SPRING, Md., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE -- PREMIER PRODUCTS GROUP INC (OTCPINK:PMPG) (the "Company") is pleased to announce that it has executed a letter of intent to acquire a crypto mining company with existing mining rigs and operations in multiple currencies. The acquisition company has extensive management strength in blockchain, cryptocurrency, and financial management. The Company is quickly working through due diligence and corporate requirements to close the transaction in January 2018.
The Company has been working in the background on its required financial filings in anticipation of the letter of intent having completed audit work on the 10-K prior to execution. The Company will be filing updates with the SEC and OTC Markets in the days and weeks to come and we are confident on the timing of events.
Updates on the Company's progress can be found by following our Twitter account @PMPGOTC .
About Premier Products Group Inc
Premier Products Group Inc has been engaged in identifying and acquiring leading and disruptive technology companies. We are currently under contract with Satic USA, a company located in Montana, that includes engineers, designers, and manufacturers of innovative energy saving products. Formal closing of the transaction remains pending subject to terms and condition that have yet to be met. Concurrently, the Company continues to explore new, innovative, and exciting technology driven companies.
Safe HarborStatement
This release contains within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements contained in this release that are not historical facts, including, without limitation, statements that relate to the Company's expectations with regard to the future impact on the Company's results from new products in development, may be seemed to be . Words such as "expects", "intends", "plans", "may", "could", "should", "anticipates", "likely", "believes" and words of similar import also identify . These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on current facts and analysis and other information that are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determined and assumptions of management. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on the , which speak only as of the date of the release. Except as may be required under applicable law, we assume no obligation to update any in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this release.
Premier Products Group, Inc.
Clifford Pope 301-202-7762
Source: Premier Products Group Inc
Source:Premier Products Group, Inc.