STONY BROOK, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Applied DNA Sciences, Inc. (NASDAQ: APDN), announced today it plans to release financial results for its fiscal 2018 first quarter ended December 31, 2017 after market close on Thursday, February 8, 2018. In conjunction with the release, the Company has scheduled a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time that will also be broadcast live over the internet.
What:
Applied DNA’s Fiscal 2018 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call When:
Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time Where:
Via phone by dialing +1 844-887-9402 or +1 412-317-6798 and ask for the Applied DNA call; via webcast .
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available for one day and may be accessed by calling +1 877-344-7529 or +1 412-317-0088 with the passcode 10115974. The webcast will be archived in the Investors section of the company’s website .
About Applied DNA Sciences
Applied DNA is a provider of molecular technologies that enable supply chain security, anti-counterfeiting and anti-theft technology, product genotyping and DNA mass production for diagnostics and therapeutics. The Company makes life real and safe by providing innovative, molecular-based technology solutions and services that can help protect products, brands, entire supply chains, and intellectual property of companies, governments and consumers from theft, counterfeiting, fraud and diversion.
The proprietary DNA-based CertainT® platform can be used to identify, tag, test, and track products, to help assure authenticity, origin, traceability, sustainability and quality of products. SigNature® DNA describes the core technology ingredient that is at the heart of a family of uncopyable, security and authentication solutions such as SigNature®T and fiberTyping®, targeted towards textiles and apparel, BackTrac® and DNAnet®, for anti-theft and loss prevention, and digitalDNA®, providing powerful track-and-trace. All provide a forensic chain of evidence, and can be used to prosecute perpetrators. Applied DNA Sciences is also engaged in the large-scale production of specific DNA sequences using the polymerase chain reaction.
Visit adnas.com for more information. Follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn . Join our mailing list .
Forward Looking Statements
The statements made by APDN in this press release may be “forward-looking” in nature within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements describe APDN’s future plans, projections, strategies and expectations, and are based on assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of APDN. Actual results could differ materially from those projected due to our short operating history, limited financial resources, limited market acceptance, market competition and various other factors detailed from time to time in APDN’s SEC reports and filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on December 28, 2017, which is available at www.sec.gov . APDN undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, unless otherwise required by law.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005181/en/
Investors:
LHA Investor Relations
Sanjay M. Hurry, 212-838-3777
shurry@lhai.com
or
Web:
www.adnas.com | twitter: @APDN
Source: Applied DNA Sciences, Inc.