Belleville, Illinois, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Belleville, Illinois — Jan. 18, 2018 — Today Allsup announced that John McGrath has joined the company as Director of Business Development. Allsup is a nationwide provider of disability claim representation, overpayment reimbursement, healthcare insurance, benefit verification and return to work services.
John McGrath, Director of Business Development, Allsup
“John has a significant amount of background and knowledge of the healthcare and disability sectors. He brings valuable experience in business development and a strong network of industry relationships to Allsup,” said David Doeren, Vice President of Allsup Sales and Account Management. “He will play an instrumental role as we continue to grow our commercial business and enhance the high-quality solutions we offer the group disability market.”
In his role, John will be responsible for development of new commercial business strategies with an emphasis on small to mid-size insurance carriers, regional third-party administrators and self-insured employers. He will focus on creating new business opportunities and custom solutions to meet client needs. He will report to David Doeren and work closely with Steve Perrigo, Allsup Vice President of National Accounts and Consulting.
John has more than 14 years of experience in the insurance industry, including short-term disability and long-term disability. Since 2008, he worked at the MLS Group of Companies, where he was Director of Business Development, selling services, expanding the business, and managing Request for Proposal (RFP) and Request for Information (RFI) processes. He is based in the Detroit, Michigan area.
ABOUT ALLSUP
Allsup and its subsidiaries provide nationwide Social Security disability, veterans disability appeal, return to work, exchange plan and Medicare services for individuals, their employers and insurance carriers. Allsup professionals deliver specialized services supporting people with disabilities and seniors so they may lead lives that are as financially secure and as healthy as possible. Founded in 1984, the company is based in Belleville, Illinois, near St. Louis. Visit Allsup.com or connect with Allsup at http://www.facebook.com/allsupinc . @Allsup
# # #
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6266a0ed-2884-426f-b2d6-2a5f9cfad224
Tai Prohaska Allsup (618) 236-8573 t.prohaska@allsup.com Rebecca Ray Allsup (618) 236-5065 r.ray@allsup.com
Source: Allsup