SKOKIE, Ill., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The AZEK Company, formerly known as CPG International LLC, today announced the company's new name, which reflects its growing share of the expanding residential and commercial building products market. The rebranding is part of the organization's strategy to disrupt the nearly $2 billion wood deck and railing industry by concentrating on its leading, premium offerings and diversifying its portfolio through strategic acquisitions of other offerings in adjacent categories.
"As The AZEK Company, we are committed to engineering and manufacturing beautiful, high-quality and low-maintenance building products to improve the spaces where our customers live, work and play," said Jesse Singh, CEO of The AZEK Company. "We will continue to expand our pipeline this year and grow our market share by engineering more premium building products and acquiring new offerings that envelop the house."
With expertise in materials science and more than 1,000 employees, The AZEK Company is growing across Illinois and within its manufacturing facilities in Pennsylvania and Ohio. It is also expanding its footprint with regional sales associates across the United States and Canada.
A central part of The AZEK Company's strategy for growth is a strong focus on reusing recycled plastics and turning them into superior residential and commercial building products that outlast wood and other raw materials. The company's three divisions – AZEK® Building Products, Scranton Products and Vycom – all convert recyclables into a diversified suite of products. Over the past five years, AZEK Building Products alone has saved more than 900,000 trees, setting The AZEK Company apart and giving it a distinct competitive advantage in the building materials space.
About The AZEK Company
The AZEK Company LLC is an industry-leading manufacturer of beautiful, low-maintenance residential and commercial building products, committed to innovation, sustainability and research and design. Headquartered in Skokie, IL, in the greater Chicago area, the company also operates highly automated manufacturing facilities in Scranton, PA, and Wilmington, OH. The company's products are marketed under several brands, including AZEK® and TimberTech® for residential building materials, Scranton Products for commercial building materials, and Vycom for industrial building materials. For additional information, visit azekco.com .
Press Contact:
Kelly Harbaugh
Edelman
(312) 240-2897
kelly.harbaugh@edelman.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cpg-international-llc-announces-corporate-rebranding-changes-name-to-the-azek-company-300579045.html
SOURCE The AZEK Company