BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Saw Mill Capital Partners II, LP and affiliated private equity investment funds managed by Saw Mill Capital LLC (Saw Mill), in partnership with the management of MeTEOR Education, LLC (MeTEOR), today announced the acquisition of MeTEOR from Hudson Ferry Capital. MeTEOR is the creator of High Impact Learning Experiences™ through modern learning environments. As one of the largest providers of learning spaces, including furnishings and interior design services, MeTEOR's focus is the integration of best practices for teaching and learning to drive inquiry-based instruction, effective use of modern classrooms, and increased student achievement. The terms of the transaction have not been disclosed. This is the fourth investment in Saw Mill's most recent private equity fund.
Bill Latham, CEO of MeTEOR, commented, "The partnership with Saw Mill further supports MeTEOR's commitment to developing long-term solutions that enable holistic transformations of learning environments and experiences. Saw Mill Capital brings a strong commitment to supporting the vision of the portfolio companies that it invests in. The firm's world-class research team will give MeTEOR significant insights into key markets and important trends."
Scott Rivard, a Partner at Saw Mill Capital, said, "We see MeTEOR Education as a truly unique and attractive partner in transforming the education landscape. We value the strong culture, differentiated offerings and solid growth strategy the company's leadership team has built and look forward to partnering with MeTEOR as we serve the growing demand for high-impact learning environments."
ABOUT METEOR EDUCATION
MeTEOR, headquartered in Gainesville, FL, is a leading educational services partner working with education professionals to help them create High-impact Learning Experiences™. To learn more visit www.meteoreducation.com .
ABOUT SAW MILL CAPITAL
Based in Briarcliff Manor, New York, Saw Mill Capital is a private equity firm that acquires industrial and commercial service, specialty distribution and manufacturing businesses with enterprise values of $25 million to $200 million. Since 1997, Saw Mill Capital has been partnering with management teams to help successful businesses reach their full potential. www.sawmillcapital.com
Contact:
Scott Rivard
Partner
Saw Mill Capital
914-741-9096
srivard@sawmillcapital.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/saw-mill-capital-announces-the-acquisition-of-meteor-education-300583960.html
SOURCE Saw Mill Capital