TULSA, Okla., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ONE Gas, Inc. (NYSE: OGS) today announced that its 2018 net income is expected to be in the range of $156 million to $168 million, or $2.96 to $3.20 per diluted share. The midpoint for ONE Gas' 2018 net income guidance is $162 million, or $3.08 per diluted share.
ONE Gas' 2018 earnings guidance primarily reflects the benefit of new rates and normal weather in its service territories and a $0.04 per diluted share contribution from the share-based compensation accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2017. These benefits are offset partially by higher depreciation expense due to capital investments. The impacts of the recently signed tax reform legislation and expected regulatory treatment have also been incorporated into guidance. ONE Gas expects to achieve a 7.3 percent return on equity (ROE) in 2018, which assumes an average rate base of $3.4 billion and is calculated consistent with utility ratemaking in each jurisdiction.
ONE Gas also increased its 2017 net income guidance to $3.06 to $3.10 per diluted share, compared with its previously announced range of $2.94 to $3.04 per diluted share. Included in the 2017 EPS guidance range is $0.10 per share contribution from adoption of the share-based compensation accounting standard in the first quarter of 2017, which was included in the previous guidance. Also included in the updated guidance is a $0.07 per share contribution from the accounting authority order approved by the Kansas Corporation Commission in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a $0.04 per share negative impact from the recently signed tax reform legislation, neither of which were included in the previous guidance.
Capital expenditures are expected to be $375 million in 2018, with 70 percent of these expenditures targeted for system integrity and replacement projects.
Guidance estimates may be impacted by the variables listed in the forward-looking statements below. Additional information is available in the guidance table on the ONE Gas website.
FIVE-YEAR GROWTH FORECAST UPDATED
ONE Gas expects net income and earnings per share to increase by an average of 5 to 7 percent annually between 2017 and 2022; however, the timing and frequency of regulatory filings will impact the growth rate in any individual year. ONE Gas' rate base is expected to grow an average of 6.0 to 6.5 percent per year between 2017 and 2022.
Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $375 million to $415 million per year between 2018 and 2022, with more than 70 percent of these expenditures targeted for system integrity and replacement projects. ONE Gas' previous five-year capital expenditures guidance range was $350 million to $380 million per year between 2017 and 2021.
ONE Gas expects its average annual dividend growth rate to be 7 to 9 percent between 2017 and 2022, with a target dividend payout ratio of 55 to 65 percent of net income, all subject to its board of directors' approval.
LINK TO GUIDANCE TABLE
http://www.onegas.com/~/media/OGS/Guidance/2018/OGS_2018_Guidance-1kKdr_Q439MdKZw.ashx
ONE Gas, Inc. (NYSE: OGS) is a 100-percent regulated natural gas utility, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "OGS." ONE Gas is included in the S&P MidCap 400 Index, and is one of the largest natural gas utilities in the United States.
ONE Gas provides natural gas distribution services to more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.
ONE Gas is headquartered in Tulsa, Okla., and its divisions include Oklahoma Natural Gas, the largest natural gas distributor in Oklahoma; Kansas Gas Service, the largest in Kansas, and Texas Gas Service, the third largest in Texas, in terms of customers.
Its largest natural gas distribution markets by customer count are Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Okla.; Kansas City, Wichita and Topeka, Kan.; and Austin and El Paso, Texas. ONE Gas serves residential, commercial, industrial, transportation and wholesale customers in all three states.
For more information, visit the website at http://www.ONEGas.com .
Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance, liquidity, management's plans and objectives for our future operations, our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this news release identified by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, should, goal, forecast, guidance, could, may, continue, might, potential, scheduled, and other words and terms of similar meaning.
One should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are applicable only as of the date of this news release. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause our actual results contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following:
our ability to recover operating costs and amounts equivalent to income taxes, costs of property, plant and equipment and regulatory assets in our regulated rates; our ability to manage our operations and maintenance costs; changes in regulation of natural gas distribution services, particularly those in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas; the economic climate and, particularly, its effect on the natural gas requirements of our residential and commercial industrial customers; competition from alternative forms of energy, including, but not limited to, electricity, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy and biofuels; conservation efforts of our customers; variations in weather, including seasonal effects on demand, the occurrence of storms and disasters, and climate change; indebtedness could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our ability to borrow additional funds and/or place us at competitive disadvantage compared with competitors; our ability to secure reliable, competitively priced and flexible natural gas transportation and supply,