BOSTON, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Votacall , a leading provider of Cloud-based voice solutions and business communication systems with an expertise in VoIP, Unified Communications (UC) and Call Center design and deployment, has acquired Mobiso, a Cloud-based Speech Recognition Software Suite from Lyrix, including all intellectual property, patents assets and infrastructure associated with the innovative software product suite. The acquisition further advances Votacall’s position as a leader in the business-class VoIP market.
Votacall has been a Lyrix partner for many years, bundling and delivering Mobiso’s innovative speech recognition application to it’s Hosted VoIP and UCaaS customer base. The relationship forged over the years between the two companies as well as the tight integration between Votacall’s Hosted VoIP platform and Mobiso made the decision to move forward with the acquisition an easy one.
"We are excited about our decision to acquire Mobiso as it will not only enhance our overall cloud product suite and features set but it will also enhance our major differentiator in a saturated market, the customer experience,” said Edward Lennon, CEO, Votacall. “We have been working with Lyrix and Mobiso for years with thousands of customers – from multi-site organizations and distributed workforces to SMBs and Start-ups – utilizing the Speech Recognition product as a way to increase efficiency and add a seamless layer that drastically advances a UCaaS solution. The opportunity to own this innovative cloud platform and further develop it and integtrate it with other business productivity tools gives Votacall and our customer base a tangible business advantage."
The Mobiso software suite consists of three products; the speech-enabled cloud application, company directory and IVR auto attendant all of which are certified on the Avaya (AVYA), Mitel (MITL), Shoretel (SHOR), GenBand, Metaswitch and Broadsoft (BSFT) communication platforms. The cloud platform integrates with traditional on-premise PBX systems as well as the emerging and widely adopted Hosted VoIP solutions. Mobiso’s unique functionality and more than 10 years of development has made the product the most accurate speech recognition application on the market with over a 98% success rate.
"Today is a great day for Lyrix, Inc and our customers. We have worked with Votacall for years and I am confident that they are the right company to acquire the Mobiso product,” said Jeff Gardella, Executive Vice President, Lyrix. “Votacall is such a forward thinking and innovative Hosted VoIP and UCaaS provider and we are confident that they will take the product to the next level through further development and integrations. Working with Votacall for many years, we know that they are passionate about the customer experience, so to hand off the Mobiso product and customer base to a company that truly values service and support is reassuring.”
Votacall will continue to work with service providers and support the enterprise and SMB customers utilizing Mobiso during the transition. Votacall has hired the lead developers of the Mobiso product suite and have a commitment from Lyrix to assist in the support of active customers as the product is intregrated into the Votacall Cloud ecosystem.
About Votacall
Votacall is a leading provider of Cloud-based voice solutions and business communication systems with an expertise in VoIP , Unified Communications (UC) and Call Center design and deployment. Votacall is committed to delivering the latest best in class offerings to our end users through constant market and product research. Our approach allows our customer base to stay ahead of the technological curve at the lowest Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) in the industry. The Votacall tag line states that you must INNOVATE to effectively COMMUNICATE. We base our organization and its daily operations on those two words. The world is changing, technology is changing, organizations are changing, it is of the utmost significance that you partner with a company that respects and embraces change.
For more, check out our website at votacall.com
About Lyrix & Mobiso
Mobiso is the creation of Lyrix, Inc. Since 1995, Lyrix has been providing the industry’s most accurate speech-enhanced directories for use as Speech Attendants and Speech-assisted Mobile Address books. Deployed worldwide by the world’s most successful enterprises and technology vendors, Mobiso delivers better business agility while easing the costs and inefficiencies of communicating in an increasingly mobile and distributed world.
For more information on Mobiso, visit mobiso.com
Votacall Contact Andy DeAngelis Votacall adeangelis@votacall.com
Source:Votacall Inc.