BALTIMORE, Adams Funds, comprised of Adams Diversified Equity Fund, Inc. (NYSE: ADX) and Adams Natural Resources Fund, Inc. (NYSE: PEO), two of the oldest closed-end funds, today announced that, after 21 years with the Funds, Lawrence (Laurie) L. Hooper, Jr., will be retiring in July 2018. Laurie has served as Adams Funds' General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 1997, and as Chief Compliance Officer since 2005.
"Laurie has served our companies incredibly well for over two decades. He has been a trusted advisor and has had a distinguished career at Adams Funds. Although his well-deserved retirement will not begin until July, I will certainly miss his good counsel and friendship," said Mark Stoeckle, CEO of Adams Funds.
The Funds announced that Janis F. Kerns joined the firm as Assistant General Counsel, effective January 22, 2018. Upon Mr. Hooper's retirement, Ms. Kerns will assume the offices of General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer.
Ms. Kerns has over 20 years of experience in the investment management industry. Most recently, she worked for the law firm of Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough, where she spent seven years in its Financial Services Practice Group. Her practice focused on the investment and asset management industry. Ms. Kerns also spent three years as senior counsel in the Securities and Exchange Commission's Division of Investment Management. She holds a J.D. from the American University, Washington College of Law, and a B.A. in Chemistry from Wake Forest University.
"We are thrilled to welcome Janis to our team," said Mark Stoeckle. "She brings a wealth of expertise in investment management to the firm and we know she will be an excellent addition to our company."
"I am excited to join Adams Funds," said Ms. Kerns. "I look forward to working with the experienced and talented team at Adams, building upon its success, and contributing to the Funds' commitment to creating value for shareholders."
Since 1929, Adams Funds have consistently helped generations of investors reach their investment goals. Adams Funds is comprised of two closed-end funds, Adams Diversified Equity Fund, Inc. (NYSE: ADX) and Adams Natural Resources Fund, Inc. (NYSE: PEO). The Funds are actively managed by an experienced team with a disciplined approach and have paid dividends for more than 80 years across many market cycles. The Funds are committed to paying an annual distribution rate of 6% or more, providing reliable income to long-term investors. Shares can be purchased through our transfer agent or through a broker. For more information about Adams Funds, please visit: www.adamsfunds.com .
Contact:
Lyn Walther
Director of Shareholder Communications
Adams Funds
410.752.5900 or 800.638.2479
walther@adamsfunds.com
View original content with multimedia: releases/lawrence-hooper-announces-retirement-plan-and-janis-kerns-joins-adams-funds-300586151.html
SOURCE Adams Diversified Equity Fund; Adams Natural Resources Fund