MEMPHIS, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jernigan Capital, Inc. (NYSE:JCAP) (the "Company") today announced that it has priced an underwritten public offering of 1,500,000 shares of its newly designated 7.00% Series B cumulative redeemable perpetual preferred stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock") at a public offering price of $25.00 per share, for net proceeds, after the underwriting discount but before estimated expenses of the offering payable by the Company, of approximately $36.3 million.
The offering is expected to close on January 26, 2018, subject to customary closing conditions. The Company has granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 225,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the public offering price less underwriting discounts and commissions. The Company has applied to list the shares of Series B Preferred Stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "JCAP PR B." If the application is approved, the Company expects trading to commence 30 days after initial delivery of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund a portion of an investment in bridge financing with respect to five self-storage facilities located in the Miami, FL MSA for which the Company has executed a non-binding term sheet, or if such investment is not consummated, for other existing or future investments in our development portfolio and operating property loan portfolio and for general corporate purposes.
Raymond James & Associates, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering and B. Riley FBR, Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. are acting as co-managers.
This offering may only be made by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus. Copies of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus related to the offering may be obtained, when available, by visiting the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “SEC”) website at www.sec.gov or from Raymond James & Associates, Inc., 880 Carillon Parkway, St. Petersburg, FL 33716, telephone: (800) 248-8863, email: prospectus@raymondjames.com ; and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Attention: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2nd Floor, New York, New York 10014.
The offering is being made pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that was declared effective by the SEC on June 24, 2016. A preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the offering was filed with the SEC. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
About Jernigan Capital, Inc.
Jernigan Capital, Inc. is a New York Stock Exchange-listed real estate investment trust (NYSE: JCAP) that provides debt and equity capital to private developers, owners, and operators of self-storage facilities. Our mission is to be the preeminent capital partner for self-storage entrepreneurs nationwide by offering creative solutions through an experienced team demonstrating the highest levels of integrity, dedication, excellence and community, while maximizing shareholder value. The Jernigan Capital team has extensive experience in over 100 U.S. markets—from acquiring and managing self-storage properties to new self-storage development—providing JCAP with knowledge unmatched by any lender, broker or advisor to the sector. Jernigan Capital is the only source of construction and development capital focused solely on the self-storage sector.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The ultimate occurrence of events and results referenced in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the actual results or performance to differ from those projected in the forward-looking statement. For example, the fact that the offering has priced may imply that the offering will close, but the closing is subject to conditions customary in transactions of this type and may be delayed or may not occur at all. In addition, the fact that the underwriters have an option to purchase additional shares may imply that this option will be exercised. However, the underwriters are not under any obligation to exercise this option, or any portion of it, and may not do so. Investors should not place undue reliance upon forward-looking statements. Further, no assurance can be given that the net proceeds from the offering will be used as indicated.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005798/en/
Jernigan Capital, Inc.
John Good, 901-567-9517
President and Chief Operating Officer
john@jernigancapital.com
Source: Jernigan Capital, Inc.