NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- L3 Technologies (NYSE:LLL) announced today that Sean J. Stackley has been appointed as corporate Vice President, Strategic Advanced Programs and Technology. In this newly created position, Mr. Stackley will focus on growth plans that align technology investments with strategy, pursuit planning, and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Stackley will report directly to Heidi R. Wood, L3’s Senior Vice President for Corporate Strategy and Technology.
“Sean’s experience in managing many of the DoD’s most complex major programs and R&D initiatives is ideally suited to our vision for L3 as a major systems provider for the Department’s advanced capability needs,” said Ms. Wood.
Mr. Stackley served as the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Development and Acquisition) from 2008 to 2017, with responsibility for the development, procurement and life-cycle support of Navy and Marine Corps ships, aircraft and weapon systems, as well as related research and development activities. In January 2017, he was assigned as the Acting Secretary of the Navy, responsible for conducting the affairs of the Department of the Navy through the transition to the current administration. Most recently, he served as an advisor to the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics), before entering the private sector.
“As we prepare for L3’s future, we will continue to hire the best talent,” said Christopher E. Kubasik, L3’s Chief Executive Officer and President. “Our strategy and vision have gained traction and are appealing to a lot of leaders. Sean was one of the most respected leaders in the Pentagon, and he adds to L3’s strong industry, policy and engineering expertise, which will speed our ability to develop the technologies that help our customers with their most critical missions. We are excited to have him aboard.”
Mr. Stackley’s four decades in public service include a career in the Navy that commenced at sea; spanned tours in ship design, construction, maintenance and modernization as an Engineering Duty Officer; and culminated with an assignment as a major program manager. Following his naval career, Mr. Stackley served as a professional staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, responsible for overseeing Navy, Marine Corps and Maritime Administration programs, as well as U.S. Transportation Command matters.
Mr. Stackley graduated with distinction from the United States Naval Academy with a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering. He holds the degrees of ocean engineer and Master of Science, mechanical engineering, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a licensed Professional Engineer in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Headquartered in New York City, L3 Technologies employs approximately 38,000 people worldwide and is a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 is also a prime contractor in aerospace systems, security and detection systems, and pilot training. The company reported 2016 sales of $10.5 billion.
To learn more about L3, please visit the company’s website at www.L3T.com . L3 uses its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding L3 is routinely posted on the company’s website and is readily accessible.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the company’s Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements included in the company’s recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006095/en/
L3 Technologies
Corporate Communications
212-697-1111
Source: L3 Technologies