ALPENA, Mich., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- First Federal of Northern Michigan Bancorp, Inc. (OTCQX: FFNM) would like to inform its shareholders that the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.05 per common share. This dividend will be paid on or about February 23, 2018, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 2, 2018.
"We are pleased to announce the continuance of our payment of a quarterly dividend to our shareholders. This dividend declaration represents our eighteenth consecutive payment of a cash dividend to our shareholders," said Michael W. Mahler, Chief Executive Officer of the Company. "We believe that a sustained cash dividend payment represents our commitment to shareholders with a continued emphasis on enhancing value for our investors."
About First Federal of Northern Michigan Bancorp, Inc.
First Federal of Northern Michigan Bancorp, Inc. is the holding company for First Federal of Northern Michigan (the "Bank"). The Bank is a full-service, community-oriented savings bank that provides financial services to individuals, families and businesses from eight full-service facilities located in Alpena, Cheboygan, Emmet, Iosco, Otsego, Montmorency and Oscoda Counties, Michigan. To learn more about the Bank, visit www.first-federal.com or call (800) 498-0013.
Forward-looking statements
This news release may contain certain , such as statements of the Company's or the Bank's plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as "expects," "subject," "believe," "will," "intends," "will be" or "would." These statements are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond the Company's or the Bank's control) and actual results may differ materially. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on any (which reflect management's analysis of factors only as of the date of which they are given). These factors include general economic conditions, trends in interest rates, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, the ability of the Company or the Bank to effectively manage its growth, and results of regulatory examinations, among other factors. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/first-federal-of-northern-michigan-bancorp-inc-announces-quarterly-cash-dividend-300587187.html
SOURCE First Federal of Northern Michigan Bancorp, Inc.