SASKATOON, Saskatchewan--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CanniMed Therapeutics Inc. (TSX:CMED) ( “CanniMed” or the “Company” ) announces that it plans to release its financial results for the year ended October 31, 2017 after close of markets on Monday, January 29, 2018.
About CanniMed Therapeutics Inc.
CanniMed is a Canadian-based, international plant biopharmaceutical company and a leader in the Canadian medical cannabis industry, with 17 years of pharmaceutical cannabis cultivation experience, state-of-the-art, GMP-compliant production process and world class research and development platforms with a wide range of pharmaceutical-grade cannabis products. In addition, the Company has an active plant biotechnology research and product development program focused on the production of plant-based materials for pharmaceutical, agricultural and environmental applications.
The Company, through its subsidiaries, was the first producer to be licensed under the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations, the predecessor to the current Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations. It was the sole supplier to Health Canada under the former medical marijuana system for 13 years, and has been producing safe and consistent medical marijuana for thousands of Canadian patients, with no incident of product diversion or recalls.
For more information, please visit our websites: www.cannimed.ca (patients) and www.cannimedtherapeutics.com (investors).
Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws, namely the Company’s plans to release its financial results for the year ended October 31, 2017 by the close of markets on January 29, 2018. These forward-looking statements are based on the assumption that the financial statements for the year ended October, 31, 2017 will have been approved and the audit completed by the close of markets on January 29, 2018, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors , including the risk that such approvals will not have been received, or audit completed by the time expected. The forward-looking statements included in this news release are made as of the date of this news release. CanniMed Therapeutics Inc. does not undertake to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events or otherwise, unless required by applicable securities legislation.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005642/en/
CanniMed Therapeutics Inc.
Dara Willis, 416-836-9272
dhw@cannimed.com
Source: CanniMed Therapeutics Inc.