LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Internet Brands has reached an agreement to acquire Avvo, Inc. and add the renowned brand to its expansive Legal portfolio. Terms of the transaction were not made public. The closing between the parties is expected to be completed shortly.
Founded in 2006 and based in Seattle, Avvo is a leading online legal marketplace connecting lawyers and consumers. The brand attracts more than 100 million annual visits to its namesake website and mobile apps through a comprehensive offering of legal services, attorney profiles, Q&A forums, and educational content for consumers and attorneys. More than 300,000 attorneys are active Avvo users.
Avvo will join Internet Brands' Legal vertical, a robust and innovative online legal network simultaneously serving consumers and attorneys. Internet Brands entered the Legal space in 2010 and operates flagship online legal brands Nolo (high-quality legal content for consumers and attorney leads), Martindale-Hubbell (legal directory, websites and peer ratings), Ngage (live chat) and Total Attorneys (attorney leads).
With the addition of Avvo, the Internet Brands Legal vertical will offer an extensive product offering for attorneys, including directory listings, leads, websites and chat.
"Avvo's culture of rapid innovation with the mission of serving both consumers and attorneys mirrors the strategy that has guided the Internet Brands Legal portfolio to strong growth over the past decade," said Bob Brisco, CEO of Internet Brands. "We look forward to continuing to transform how consumers connect with attorneys while helping attorneys grow their businesses."
"Internet Brands is a uniquely great fit for us," said Mark Britton, Founder and CEO of Avvo. "With their commitment to and understanding of the legal vertical, we quickly envisioned a collective whole that would bring more consumers and lawyers together than ever before. I am excited about what we will accomplish together."
The Avvo brand will be retained following completion of the acquisition, and Avvo will continue to operate from its headquarters in Seattle under the direction of its existing leadership team.
Citi is serving as exclusive financial advisor to Avvo in connection with the transaction and Perkins Coie is serving as its legal advisor.
About Internet Brands
Headquartered in El Segundo, Calif., Internet Brands® is a fully integrated online media and software services organization focused on four high-value vertical categories: Health, Automotive, Legal and Home/Travel. The company's award-winning consumer websites lead their categories and serve more than 100 million monthly visitors, while a full range of web presence offerings has established deep, long-term relationships with SMB and enterprise clients. Internet Brands' powerful, proprietary operating platform provides the flexibility and scalability to fuel the company's continued growth. Internet Brands is a portfolio company of KKR and Temasek. For more information, please visit www.internetbrands.com .
About Avvo, Inc.®
Avvo helps people find and connect with the right lawyer through industry leading content, tools and services. Founded in 2006 in Seattle, Avvo provides transparent information about attorneys, with Avvo-rated profiles for 97% of practicing lawyers in the United States. A free Q&A forum with more than 11 million questions and answers, and on-demand legal services that provide professional counsel for a fixed cost, make legal faster and easier. For more information on how Avvo helps people through legal issues from research to resolution, visit www.avvo.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/internet-brands-to-acquire-avvo-300581042.html
SOURCE Internet Brands