SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CAI International, Inc. (CAI) (NYSE: CAI), one of the world’s leading transportation finance and logistics companies, today announced that the Board of Directors has appointed David Remington as its Chairman of the Board of Directors.
On January 8, 2017, the Board of Directors of CAI appointed David Remington as the new Chairman of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Remington has served as a CAI director since 2010, is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee, and was previously the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Beyond his significant CAI experience, Mr. Remington has extensive leadership experience, having been an investment banking Managing Director of Dean Witter and President of Steiner Financial Corporation, an equipment leasing company. Mr. Remington has a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley, and an MBA from Harvard Business School. He has previously served on four business and non-profit boards.
Victor Garcia, CAI’s Chief Executive Officer, commented, “I am excited that we have nominated Dave Remington as our Chairman. During his years as a Board Member, Dave has shown great insight into the leasing business and has had strong input in CAI’s strategy. Dave has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has served on all of our committees during his tenure on the Board and thus he has great insight into the operations of the company.”
David Remington, CAI’s Chairman of the Board, commented, “I am pleased to serve in this new leadership role, having previously worked closely with senior management and our former Chairman in setting CAI’s business plan and strategy. We expect to continue on the same fundamental strategic path and I will work closely with management in making sure we are executing on behalf of our shareholders.”
About CAI International, Inc.
CAI is one of the world’s leading transportation finance and logistics companies. As of September 30, 2017, CAI operated a worldwide fleet of approximately 1.3 million CEUs of containers, and owned a fleet of 6,795 railcars that it leases within North America. CAI operates through 24 offices located in 14 countries including the United States.
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006829/en/
CAI International, Inc.
Tim Page, 415-788-0100
Chief Financial Officer
tpage@capps.com
Source: CAI International, Inc.