ROCKAWAY, N.J., Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Virtual Corporation, the trusted leader in Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery software and consulting announced today the appointment of Scott W. Ream as the Association of Continuity Professionals (ACP) National Board Chair for 2018, effective Jan. 1, 2018.
Mr. Ream brings more than 25 years of relevant industry experience to his new role. "The Association of Continuity Professionals provides an extraordinary value to our members through our more than 35 local chapters nationwide and the resources available through the National office and website at acp-international.com ," said Ream. "2018 is an important year in ACP's growth as we leverage our past successes and execute new programs for the wide audience we serve in business continuity, IT disaster recovery, crisis and emergency management, and risk management. I am excited and challenged by this opportunity and so impressed with the caliber of individuals who join me on the National Board, as well as the many local Chapter leaders working with us to achieve ACP's mission: We develop and advance continuity professionals to be accomplished in their career."
Mr. Ream's business strategy and organizational development experience in leading one of the top business continuity companies in the industry will serve ACP and its members well. His expertise in the organizational resilience space will prove advantageous to the organization as Mr. Ream is a business continuity pioneer, thought leader, author & strategist. His many years in IT support, business process design & consulting services allowed him to leverage this experience in the design of Virtual Corporation's innovative products & services. Mr. Ream's vision is that prudent, practical continuity preparedness can be cost-effectively achieved & sustained. Scott was the lead creator of the Business Continuity Maturity Model® (BCMM®) together with assistance from a diverse continuity professional working team. Mr. Ream also, after recognizing a void in the continuity industry, pioneered the design and development of Sustainable Planner®, an organizational resilience software tool that enables organizations to implement BC/DR programs that exactly fit with their organizational resilience needs as well as within their sector and unique team culture. Mr. Ream has also authored many articles on business continuity & annually presents at conferences.
Mr. Ream has a BAS in electrical engineering & entrepreneurial business development from the University of Pennsylvania; a combined undergraduate degree from the Moore School of Electrical Engineering & the Wharton School of Business.
About Virtual Corporation
Virtual Corporation is a trusted leader in the implementation of enterprise continuity programs and organizational resilience. Our focus is on partnering with our clients to help them solve their most demanding challenges. Visit virtual-corp.com for more information. Connect with Virtual Corporation on Twitter (@virtual_corp) and LinkedIn .
Media Inquiries:
Virtual Corporation
Michelle Diaz
973-804-0765
mdiaz@virtual-corp.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/business-continuity-thought-leader-and-president--ceo-of-virtual-corporation-named-2018-acp-national-board-chair-300582628.html
SOURCE Virtual Corporation