BRISTOL, Tenn., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- UPM Pharmaceuticals, a Contract Development and Manufacturing Organization (CDMO) focused on solid oral and semi-solid drug dosage forms, has appointed Daniel Dixon to the position of Vice President of Quality Control. Mr. Dixon will oversee UPM's Analytical Testing & Development groups and the Microbiological & Raw Material Testing Labs.
Chris Curtin, COO of UPM Pharmaceuticals stated, "Daniel brings a wealth of experience and enthusiasm to this key position at UPM. With his diverse experience in Research, Analytical Testing, Manufacturing and Quality Assurance, I am quite confident that Daniel will enhance and continue to grow our Quality Control Laboratory systems and Analytical capabilities."
Mr. Dixon's experience includes diverse projects throughout the product lifecycle, research, manufacturing and quality assurance; holding advanced positions after serving in the U.S. Army Medical Division. This experience encompasses both pharmaceutical and medical device regulated testing and manufacture; and he is the co-inventor on six patents. Dixon also served in advanced QC/QA positions for Colgate Palmolive and Dentsply Sirona.
Jim Gregory, CEO of UPM Pharmaceuticals commented, "With a rich background in both Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Quality Assurance, Daniel brings a unique set of skills and insight to our company. We are confident in Daniel's abilities to optimize our labs and further position UPM as a leader in the CDMO space."
"It's an exciting time to be part of this phase of growth at UPM," Mr. Dixon added. "A strong Analytical Group is paramount for a CDMO to be successful. My aspirations are to continue the drive for excellence and leading performance of the Analytical organization at UPM."
About UPM Pharmaceuticals
UPM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is an independent drug development and contract manufacturer serving the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We provide high quality drug development services including custom formulation development, cGMP clinical and commercial manufacturing, analytical methods services, and stability testing. UPM's clients enjoy service that is customized and fast with total quality management characteristics of a customer focused business. Our history includes successful collaborative interactions with small virtual and large billion dollar companies providing customized product development services and solutions. UPM focuses on drug development for dosages with oral routes of administration, in solid dosage forms such as capsules and tablets, and semi-solid creams and ointments. Our 475,000 square foot commercial manufacturing facility based in Bristol, Tennessee allows us to serve our clients' needs from early stage development to large scale commercial production. More at www.upm-inc.com
For more information:
Mary Lee Schiesz
Manager of Marketing
Email: mschiesz@upm-inc.com
Phone: +1 (423) 989-7057
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/upm-pharmaceuticals-appoints-daniel-dixon-as-vice-president-of-quality-control-300587487.html
SOURCE UPM Pharmaceuticals