SAN DIEGO, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- EVOTEK ( www.EVOTEK.com ), the nation's premier enabler of digital business, announced today that global information technology and cybersecurity expert, Macy Dennis, has joined the company as their first Chief Security Officer (CSO). Dennis brings extensive cybersecurity expertise, in both the public and private sectors. In his new appointment, Dennis will lead the company's overall security operations, leveraging industry-recognized security controls and advanced technologies, to address today's most critical security threats.
With over 20 years of information technology and security leadership experience, Dennis has a proven track record for building strong, successful teams with focus on cybersecurity, privacy, and physical security. Dennis is the founder, and current chairman, of the board for the San Diego CISO Round Table, an ecosystem for CISOs and security leaders to meet with their peers in a closed forum. He serves on the California Governor's Cyber Taskforce, Cyber Center of Excellence, and Security Advisory Alliance. Each of these groups enable leaders to collaborate on current security concerns, provide coaching and mentoring for security leaders, and focus on the development of threat prevention and response tactics, techniques, and procedures. US Government agencies have recognized Dennis for building a program that was nominated for the National Counterintelligence Award. With this nomination, his program and leadership abilities were placed in the top 1% of more than 15,000 cleared defense contractors in the United States.
"Cybersecurity is critical in all aspects of today's business," said Jeffrey Klenner, President of EVOTEK. "Macy has two decades of experience building teams, creating security strategy, and advising others how to protect, prepare, and respond to threats. I am more than excited to have a talented executive of Macy's caliber join our rapidly growing team."
Prior to joining EVOTEK, Dennis was an Executive Director in the Office of the CISO at Optiv. Before Optiv, he served as the CISO at Kratos Defense and Amylin Pharmaceuticals, as well as, held various security leadership roles at American Express, Trimble Navigation, Echostar, and Winstar Wireless. Prior to that, he had a career in law enforcement and criminal justice. Dennis holds a Bachelor's Degree in Government & Politics/International studies from George Mason University, a Master's Degree in Executive Leadership from University of San Diego, and is a graduate of both the FBI Citizen's Academy (San Diego, CA) and the FBI CISO Academy (Quantico, VA). He carries an Active Security Clearance, meaning he is cleared as a courier for classified information.
EVOTEK is purpose-built to address the evolving technology landscape. With offerings in both data center and cloud, EVOTEK is uniquely equipped to assist customers with the industry shift from traditional IT computing to multi-cloud. Cybersecurity has become a top priority in the boardroom and is considered a tangible business risk. EVOTEK's customer security program is designed to provide a proactive approach to better secure environments and data, while delivering a compliance-based risk approach to solve real business problems appropriate for each situation.
"EVOTEK has taken a crucial step to provide the organization an overall security strategy in this hyper-connected world," stated Dennis. "With all the noise concerning breaches, GDPR regulations, and the hundreds of new products and companies that come to market every year, security practitioners need clarity. My role will be to guide EVOTEK's internal security posture and use this as a framework to advise our customers. I am excited to be joining the EVOTEK leadership team."
About EVOTEK
EVOTEK is North America's premier enabler of digital business with a focus on innovation. With technology offerings in both data center and cloud, EVOTEK is uniquely equipped to enable customers with the industry shift from traditional IT computing to multi-cloud. With services practices in security, mobility, and DevOps, EVOTEK is moving up the value chain, closer to the part of digital business that matters most. In both 2016 and 2017, EVOTEK was named to The San Diego Business Journal's Best Places to work and recognized in CRN's Solution Provider 500 list, CRN's Next-Generation 250 list and highlighted CRN's Top 150 Growth Companies, holding the #1 spot, as the fastest growing system integrator in the country.
To learn more about how EVOTEK can enable your digital business, visit http://www.EVOTEK.com/ .
Follow EVOTEK: Twitter | LinkedIn | Facebook
Media contact:
Torrie Bradley
189109@email4pr.com
619-962-5470
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/evotek-expands-leadership-team-appoints-macy-dennis-as-chief-security-officer-300585831.html
SOURCE EVOTEK