ROCHESTER, N.Y., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- VerifyMe, Inc. (OTCQB: VRME), a technology solutions company that markets a broad patent portfolio that includes patents in the field of authenticating products, people and financial transactions today announced it has appointed Mr. Jay Cardwell, CPA, as its chief financial officer, effective immediately.
Mr. Cardwell has more than 35 years of comprehensive experience in, SEC reporting & compliance, financial reporting, tax research & compliance, strategic planning, treasury and cash management as well as strategic planning, mergers & acquisitions, international accounting, due diligence investigations, expert analysis for dispute resolution, operations management ranging from early stage project development to large multi-tiered international organizations.
Mr. Cardwell has been the COO of The CFO Squad LLC since July 2015 providing a variety of CFO support and signatory services from pre-audit services, M&A Advisory, SEC compliance, tax compliance, financial reporting and other services for clients. Prior to The CFO Squad, Mr. Cardwell held CEO, CFO & COO and director roles for companies within the entertainment industry. Mr. Cardwell began his career with Arthur Andersen & Co (St. Louis) with clients including General Dynamics, Anheuser-Bush, and May Department Stores. In addition, Mr. Cardwell continues to serve as a trustee for charitable organizations as well as a treasurer. Mr. Cardwell has been CPA licensed in the State of New York since 1986 and a graduate of Illinois State University in Accounting, Alumni Honoree.
Patrick White, president and chief executive officer of VerifyMe, commented, "It is my pleasure to welcome Jay as VerifyMe's CFO. His comprehensive background especially mergers and acquisitions and international experience will add skill sets and depth to our executive team and will assist VerifyMe with some major opportunities which require Jay's expertise. I believe Jay will be a great asset to our company and looking forward to a rewarding relationship."
About VerifyMe, Inc.
VerifyMe, Inc., is a technology solutions company that markets a broad patent portfolio that includes patents in the field of authenticating products, people and financial transactions. VerifyMe's physical technology authenticates packaging, labels & documents with a suite of proprietary security inks and pigments. The company's digital technologies authenticate people and associated financial transactions by performing non-password multi-factor verification via its patented digital software platforms. To learn more, visit www.verifyme.com . Interested Brand Owners & financial institutions should contact our sales team, phone: 585-736-9400 or email: info@verifyme.com .
For Licensing or other information contact:
Company: VerifyMe, Inc.
Email: IR@verifyme.com
Website: http://www.verifyme.com
For investors contact:
Lytham Partners
Adam Lowensteiner or Robert Blum
646-829-9700 – New York
602-889-9700 - Phoenix
vrme@lythampartners.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/verifyme-appoints-mr-jay-cardwell-as-chief-financial-officer-300584558.html
SOURCE VerifyMe, Inc.