NEW YORK, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Deloitte announced today a significant investment in cloud management services by acquiring assets of ATADATA, an Atlanta-based provider of a holistic cloud platform that maps, migrates and manages workloads in any combination of on-premise and cloud environments to drive and optimize enterprise operations.
ATADATA's market-leading cloud management and automation platform, ATAsphere, expands Deloitte's robust end-to-end cloud offerings – from the strategy phase to the build and operate phases. These services, coupled with Deloitte's in-depth business and industry knowledge, will advantageously enable clients to achieve the transformative value of cloud.
"Combining the power of the ATAsphere platform with Deloitte services allows clients to more rapidly and efficiently plan, build and operate innovative cloud solutions," said Larry Calabro, principal and cloud practice leader, Deloitte Consulting LLP.
The ATAsphere platform provides automated, integrated cloud migration along with discovery, application mapping, mirroring, and migration for enterprise workloads at scale. Compatible with 20 different cloud infrastructures globally, the ATAsphere platform is certified by Amazon Web Services (AWS), works on Microsoft Azure, and recommended by Google Cloud Platform (GCP). The ATAsphere software platform provides unprecedented speed and flexibility which can help to ease the digital transformation of any complex organization.
"Deloitte has demonstrated exceptional success in driving innovation using cloud, digital, and cognitive technologies for a wide range of enterprise clients. We are excited to amplify that success by enabling simple, scalable data and application stacks for on-premise, private and public clouds," said Charles Wright, CEO and CTO, ATADATA. "Clients look to partner with companies that demonstrate deep technical migration expertise as a part of a comprehensive, strategic solution. With ATADATA's assets, Deloitte offers just that."
As part of the deep cloud engineering and migration experience of ATADATA transitioning to Deloitte, Wright joins the Deloitte team alongside Ian Easton, chief commercial officer, ATADATA, to enable client success within and across sectors. Wright will also oversee continued enhancements of the ATADATA platform, which will grow and evolve to meet client needs.
This acquisition follows significant cloud investments made by Deloitte. In 2017, Deloitte acquired the businesses of numerous cloud companies, including Day1 Solutions' analytics and cognitive cloud assets, as well as added 3,000 new U.S.-based high-tech engineering jobs to rapidly deliver cloud capabilities to clients.
For more information about Deloitte cloud offerings please visit the following site: https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/technology/topics/cloud.html .
Deloitte Digital has created a new model for a new age — a creative digital consultancy. That means bringing together all the creative and technology capabilities, business acumen and industry insight needed to help transform clients' businesses with digital. With Deloitte Digital's end-to-end capabilities, clients bring their greatest ambitions, knowing Deloitte Digital has what it takes to bring new business visions to life. Visit www.deloittedigital.com or follow on Twitter @DeloitteDigi_US or @DeloitteDigital.
About Deloitte
Deloitte provides industry-leading audit, consulting, tax and advisory services to many of the world's most admired brands, including more than 85 percent of the Fortune 500 and more than 6,000 private and middle market companies. Our people work across more than 20 industry sectors to make an impact that matters — delivering measurable and lasting results that help reinforce public trust in our capital markets, inspire clients to see challenges as opportunities to transform and thrive, and help lead the way toward a stronger economy and a healthy society. Deloitte is proud to be part of the largest global professional services network serving our clients in the markets that are most important to them.
Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee ("DTTL"), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as "Deloitte Global") does not provide services to clients. In the United States, Deloitte refers to one or more of the US member firms of DTTL, their related entities that operate using the "Deloitte" name in the United States and their respective affiliates. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more about our global network of member firms.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/deloitte-expands-capabilities-with-new-acquisition-to-accelerate-cloud-innovation-300586271.html
SOURCE Deloitte