WASHINGTON, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Plan International USA today announced the appointment of John Glover, a seasoned leader with more than 20 years of international development experience, as Senior Vice President of Programs and Policy. He brings leadership expertise from both the private and government sectors.
"We are delighted to welcome John to Plan International USA," said Tessie San Martin, President and Chief Executive Officer. "He brings a wealth of knowledge about the international development sector, business development, and program management- both within the U.S. and globally. In this role, John will drive strategic direction for our programs and policy initiatives."
Mr. Glover comes to Plan from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), where he played a significant role on the start-up team leading PwC's international development work, including creating new approaches that drew on commercial practices in such areas as innovation, health supply chains, and government transformation, as well as building new alliances and partnerships for PwC around world. He is particularly interested in collaborating on new forms of alliances to increase development results in a rapidly changing global environment.
He has previously held positions at Booz Allen Hamilton as a Senior Associate and Abt Associates as Vice President and Principal Associate. In addition, he has worked at BearingPoint, IBM, Ernst & Young, major Austrian banks, and USAID, among other organizations.
Mr. Glover currently serves as the Program Committee Chair for the Board of Directors at the Society of International Development, Washington, DC. He holds a master's degree from Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in diplomacy, a master's degree from Northwestern University and bachelor's from Duke University.
To learn more about Plan's Executive Team, please visit: http://www.planusa.org/leadership .
About Plan International
Plan International is an independent development and humanitarian organization that advances children's rights and equality for girls. Plan believes in the power and potential of every child. Working together with children, young people, supporters, and partners, Plan strives for a just world, tackling the root causes of the challenges facing girls and all vulnerable children.
For more information, please visit PlanUSA.org .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/plan-international-usa-announces-appointment-of-new-svp-of-international-programs-300581825.html
SOURCE Plan International USA