NEW YORK, Association of Executive Search and Leadership Consultants (AESC) today announces 2018 officers and the appointments of five new Directors to the AESC Global Board of Directors, which consists of elected representatives from each of AESC’s three Regional Councils: Americas; Asia Pacific and Middle East; Europe and Africa.
New Directors include: Sonal Agrawal , Managing Partner, Financial Services and Professional Services Practices, Accord Group/AltoPartners; Emanuela Aureli , Consultant, Technology, Media & Telecommunications and Data & Analytics Practices, Spencer Stuart; Julian Ha , Partner, Government Affairs and Trade Association Practices, Heidrick & Struggles; Alicia Hasell , Managing Partner, Industrial and CEO & Board Services Practices, Boyden; and Cathy Logue , Managing Director, CFO & Financial Executives Practice, Stanton Chase.
Paul Benson , Regional Market Leader, Europe Middle East & Africa, Global Industrial Market, Korn Ferry will serve as AESC Chair. Morten Nielsen , Senior Partner and Global Managing Partner, Life Sciences Practice, Witt/Kieffer will serve as AESC Vice Chair, while Ineke Arts , Partner, Technology, EU Association and Consulting Practices, Hoffman & Associates/IIC Partners will serve as AESC Secretary and Treasurer.
The complete 2018 AESC Global Board of Directors includes:
Paul Benson , Korn Ferry, Chair Morten Nielsen , Witt Kieffer, Vice Chair Ineke Arts , Hoffman & Associates/IIC Partners, Secretary and Treasurer Krista Walochik , Talengo/The Global Community for Leaders (TGCL), Chair Emeritus Karen Greenbaum , AESC, Ex-officio Sonal Agrawal , Accord Group/AltoPartners Emanuela Aureli , Spencer Stuart Richard Boggis Rolfe , Odgers Berndtson Kate Bullis , SEBA International Dorota Czarnota , Russell Reynolds Associates Julian Ha , Heidrick and Struggles Alicia Hasell , Boyden Nobi Kaneko , Kaneko & Associates Alan J. Kaplan , Kaplan Partners Cathy Logue , Stanton Chase Stefan Spang , McKinsey & Company
Paul Benson, AESC Chair, commented: “I look forward to working with our Directors and AESC members around the world through this pivotal phase in our profession. In an era of widespread disruption and lightning-fast change, business leaders more than ever look to trusted advisors for a competitive advantage in their industries. It is imperative that AESC and its global members continue to operate at the height of the profession and be at the forefront of talent consulting on behalf of their clients.”
Karen Greenbaum, AESC President and CEO, commented: “Our Board reflects the exemplary standards of AESC’s global membership of leading executive search and advisory firms. I would like to thank our Board for their commitment to the successful future of our profession. Our Board helps AESC align our strategic direction with that of our members around the world. We are proud to represent the very best firms in the profession—whether large and global, regional or local—as we focus on new challenges facing top leaders, from global expansion and artificial intelligence to cyber risk, mass generational shift and increasing regulation.”
To view the full AESC Board of Directors with bios, please visit the AESC website at www.aesc.org .
About Association of Executive Search and Leadership Consultants
AESC is the voice of excellence for the executive search and leadership consulting profession worldwide. Its rigorous Code of Professional Practice guides members in nearly 1,300 offices in 74 countries and beyond to serve as strategic advisors on behalf of their clients. In turn, AESC members are best positioned to provide companies with a competitive advantage—the ability to find, attract and develop the best talent in the world and ensure that executives are successfully integrated.
Contact:
Joe Chappell, AESC
jchappell@aesc.org
+ 1 (646) 757 5492
Source:Association of Executive Search & Leadership Consultants(AESC)