RICHMOND, Va., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Markel Corporation (NYSE: MKL) today announced that Saurabh Madaan, a Senior Data Scientist at Google, has been hired as Managing Director, Investments.
Madaan will report to Tom Gayner, Co-Chief Executive Officer. In this new role, Madaan will work closely with Gayner and assist in the management of the company's investment portfolio.
"We are excited to have Saurabh join Markel. With Saurabh's first-rate expertise, intellectual abilities, and demonstrated leadership capabilities, as well as his compatibility with the Markel Style, he will be a strong asset to the leadership team," said Tom Gayner, Co-Chief Executive Officer. "He is on the forefront of global trends in investing and technology that will be invaluable insight for Markel as we continue to grow and strengthen our portfolio management."
Prior to joining Markel, Madaan was with Google since 2010 and his most recent role was Senior Data Scientist. During his tenure at Google, he taught an award-winning Leadership and Teamwork course across the globe and he also led the Talks@Google investing series where he has interviewed many of the world's best investors. He holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, a Master of Science in Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania, and a Master of Science (Physics) from the University of Waterloo.
Madaan will be based in Markel's corporate headquarters in Glen Allen, VA.
About Markel Corporation
Markel Corporation is a diverse financial holding company serving a variety of niche markets. The Company's principal business markets and underwrites specialty insurance products. In each of the Company's businesses, it seeks to provide quality products and excellent customer service so that it can be a market leader. The financial goals of the Company are to earn consistent underwriting and operating profits and superior investment returns to build shareholder value. Visit Markel Corporation on the web at markelcorp.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/markel-names-saurabh-madaan-managing-director-investments-300588570.html
SOURCE Markel Corporation