SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Regency Centers Corporation (“Regency” or the “Company”), a national owner, operator, and developer of grocery-anchored shopping centers has acquired Roosevelt Square, a 150,000-square foot, multi-level neighborhood shopping center in Seattle, Washington. Anchored by Whole Foods market, this property is currently 100% leased and surrounded by powerful demographics in a premier trade area.
“This is a great asset and fit for our continued expansion in the market,” said Craig Ramey, Managing Director for Regency Centers. “This adds to our urban platform that we continue to build with acquisition and development of best-in-class shopping centers. We want this place to continuously be a relevant and experiential draw for the neighboring communities, and the proximity to the University of Washington and active lifestyles will ensure that Roosevelt Square continues to be the favorite place for customers to meet friends, shop and dine.”
Roosevelt Square’s acquisition makes it the 11 th addition to Regency’s presence in the market at approximately 1.5 million square feet of community-serving retail. Other properties include Broadway Market, Grand Ridge Plaza, Klahanie Shopping Center, and Sammamish Highlands.
About Regency Centers Corporation (NYSE: REG)
Regency Centers is the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers located in affluent and densely populated trade areas. Our portfolio includes thriving properties merchandised with highly productive grocers, restaurants, service providers, and best-in-class retailers that connect to their neighborhoods, communities, and customers. Operating as a fully integrated real estate company, Regency Centers is a qualified real estate investment trust (REIT) that is self-administered, self-managed, and an S&P 500 Index member. For more information, please visit regencycenters.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005698/en/
Regency Centers Corporation
Eric Davidson, 904-598-7829
Communication Manager
EricDavidson@regencycenters.com
or
Craig Ramey, 503-603-4726
Managing Director, Pacific Northwest, Northern California, and Colorado
CraigRamey@regencycenters.com
Source: Regency Centers Corporation