SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Fingerpaint Marketing, an independent, full-service nationwide marketing agency, has signed a contract to acquire 395 Broadway and the adjacent parking lot in downtown Saratoga Springs, NY from Myron M. Hunt, Inc. The deal is expected to close within the next three to six months.
The current two-story building has 25,000 square-feet of office space and a 55-car parking lot.
Fingerpaint has been a tenant in the building since it signed a ten-year lease back in October 2012. At that time, the company had 42 employees and $4.3 million in annual revenue. In 2018, the company is projecting $45 million in revenue with a staff of nearly 200, with more than half located in the Saratoga Springs location.
The company plans to add a third floor to the existing building to allow for further company expansion. It also has hopes to build on the existing parking lot with a mix of office, residential and parking facilities.
"This acquisition will ensure our long-term presence in downtown Saratoga Springs. We absolutely love our current location, and it has been a wonderful complement to all of the restaurants, bars and retail shops downtown," said Ed Mitzen, Fingerpaint's founder. "We are thrilled that we will continue to be a major player in downtown Saratoga Springs for years and years to come. It's a truly special place."
To learn more about Fingerpaint, trailblazing work and inclusive company culture, please visit www.FingerpaintMarketing.com .
About Fingerpaint
Reset your expectations of a marketing agency. Independent by design, with integrated talent across Saratoga Springs, New York; Conshohocken, Pennsylvania; Scottsdale, Arizona; and Columbus, Ohio, Fingerpaint is committed to creating and executing meaningful brand experiences that are never paint by number.
In the last 2 years, Fingerpaint received 14 American Advertising Awards (formerly the ADDYs); was named 2014 Agency of the Year and a 2017 finalist by Med Ad News; was named Advertising Agency of the Year by PM360 in 2015; has been named to Inc. Magazine's list of the 5000 Fastest-Growing Companies for the past 4 years; was selected a Best Place to Work by the Albany and Philadelphia Business Journals; and won Business Intelligence Group's PR & Marketing Agency of the Year in 2017. Founder Ed Mitzen was honored as 2016's Industry Person of the Year by Med Ad News. Visit us at fingerpaintmarketing.com and follow us on Facebook , Twitter , LinkedIn , and Instagram .
MEDIA CONTACT
Jonesworks
Michelle Bower / Kimberly Pergola
212-839-0111
Fingerpaint@jonesworks.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fingerpaint-marketing-inks-deal-to-acquire-395-broadway-300585958.html
SOURCE Fingerpaint Marketing