RACINE, Wis., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Modine Manufacturing Company (NYSE: MOD), a diversified global leader in thermal management technology and solutions, is pleased to welcome Steve Langer, to the role of Vice President, Information Technology.
As Vice President, Information Technology, Langer will oversee all aspects of Modine's global information technology and systems, including the development, configuration, and support of all business systems.
Langer is an information technology executive with over 20 years of experience leading global companies. Most recently, Langer was the Director, Application Infrastructure Management at SC Johnson & Son. He held several roles with increasing responsibility at the company, including Director, Support Services and Director, Information Management & Architecture. Langer obtained his Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering and Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Illinois.
"Steve brings to Modine a broad, global experience in the information technology discipline," said Mick Lucareli, Vice President & CFO. "We are excited to have him join our leadership team in this function that is so critical to the success of our global businesses."
About Modine
Modine, with fiscal 2017 revenues of $1.5 billion, specializes in thermal management systems and components, bringing highly engineered heating and cooling components, original equipment products, and systems to diversified global markets through its three complementary business units: Vehicular Thermal Solutions (VTS); Commercial & Industrial Solutions (CIS); and Building HVAC Systems (BHVAC). Modine is a global company headquartered in Racine, Wisconsin (USA), with operations in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. For more information about Modine, visit www.modine.com .
Contact:
Amanda Bulgrin
(262) 636-8466
a.a.bulgrin@na.modine.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/modine-hires-vice-president-information-technology-300589668.html
SOURCE Modine Manufacturing Company