DALLAS, Jan. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Delta Companies (TDC), a leading staffing firm for healthcare professionals nationwide, announced that Paul Estrada has been promoted to Executive Vice President of Delta Physician Placement (DPP). Estrada was previously the Senior Vice President for DPP.
Over the past three years, Estrada has been instrumental in establishing and utilizing the business strategies that have enabled DPP to excel and outpace the market. The promotion recognizes Estrada’s contribution to DPP and his impressive business acumen.
“Paul’s leadership style reflects our commitment to customer service,” said Bill Tracewell, CEO of TDC. “He has been instrumental in creating an environment where every member of the team feels empowered and motivated to deliver on our core values. As a result of his great work, DPP has exceeded market expectations.”
In 2012, Estrada joined TDC as Director of Marketing for DPP. During his tenure with the company, Estrada has been named “Leader of the Quarter” multiple times.
“It is an honor to work with colleagues who have such high integrity and a focus on continuous improvement,” Estrada said. “I am enthusiastic and excited about the future—and I look forward to the ongoing opportunities we have in contributing to the evolution of our employees, healthcare providers, clients, and the communities they serve.”
DPP, which represents physicians interested in permanent job placement, has been recognized with Inavero’s Best of Staffing® Client Satisfaction and Best of Staffing® Talent Satisfaction awards for the last three years.
ABOUT THE DELTA COMPANIES
The Delta Companies offers permanent and temporary staffing solutions nationwide for physicians, physician extenders, therapy, and other allied healthcare professionals. Physician staffing services are represented by Delta Physician Placement and Delta Locum Tenens . All other allied healthcare staffing services are represented by Delta Healthcare Providers .
For More Information, Contact:
Eric Sasser
Vice President of Advertising, The Delta Companies
Four Hickory Centre
1755 Wittington Place, Suite 175
Dallas, TX 75234
(800) 521-5060 x4600
PR@thedeltacompanies.com
http://www.thedeltacompanies.com
Source: The Delta Companies