Published: Jan 17, 2018 7:05 a.m. ET Share 
Each political party is planning to blame the other if any disruptions in services occur Reuters Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) questions U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen during a hearing with the Senate Judiciary Committee Tuesday. 
By Laura Meckler Kristina Peterson 
WASHINGTON—Senators worked Tuesday to salvage a bipartisan plan to protect “Dreamers”—young undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. by their parents—as the divide grew over an immigration deal seen as key to avoiding a government shutdown this weekend. 
The White House complicated the negotiations by insisting that Congress allocate billions more for President Donald Trump’s promised border wall with Mexico. 
Don’t miss: Here’s how the stock market has handled past government shutdowns 
Without a spending agreement by 12:01 a.m. Saturday, the government will partially shut down operations. Many Senate Democrats were noncommittal Tuesday over whether they would allow a shutdown in an election year in which control of the Senate is in play. 
Commentary: If politicians can’t pass a budget, what makes them think they can do the hard stuff? 
Republicans were already preparing to accuse Democrats of shutting services because they didn’t get an immigration deal. But Democrats said Trump’s dismissal of “shithole countries” in Africa in a closed meeting last week with lawmakers positioned him as the person who upset the negotiations. 
The immigration issue is growing more urgent as the calendar ticks toward March 5, the date Trump set for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, to end officially. Trump killed the Obama-era program in September and urged Congress to negotiate a replacement. 
On Tuesday, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.), an architect of the bipartisan Senate immigration plan, quizzed Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on whether she understood that Republicans weren’t going to get everything they want in a compromise deal. And he bemoaned the seeming transformation of Trump from the deal-making optimist on display at a bipartisan discussion a week ago. 