CHICAGO, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lincoln International ("Lincoln"), a leading global mid-market investment bank, is pleased to announce that it has represented Farol Asset Management ("Farol"), Fulham & Co. ("Fulham"), Brooke Private Equity Associates ("BPEA") and management shareholders in the sale of Delphon Industries, LLC ("Delphon" or the "Company") to PWP Growth Equity ("PWP"). Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Delphon is a leading provider of innovative, materials-based solutions and services for the handling, processing, packaging and marking of high-value technology and medical components, serving customers in the semiconductor, optoelectronics, data storage, medical, aerospace, defense and telecom end markets. The Company's unmatched chemistry and engineering capabilities are recognized globally by engineers at leading technology innovators, who demand high-performance, tailored solutions.
Delphon is headquartered in Hayward, California (US) and has operations in Wilsonville, Oregon. The Company's Gel-Pak, TouchMark and UltraTape divisions, along with a worldwide sales and distribution network, deliver solutions to more than 2,500 customers worldwide.
Rob Azeke, Founder and Managing Partner of Farol, commented "Lincoln International's industry expertise and ability to run a highly efficient, global process, generated tremendous interest in Delphon and an excellent result for Delphon's shareholders."
Lincoln acted as the exclusive financial advisor to Delphon, Farol, Fulham, BPEA and management, working closely with the shareholders and management team throughout the sale process. This included providing advisory expertise and managing the preparatory, marketing, negotiation and due diligence phases of the transaction.
For more information on Lincoln's Global Electronics Sector, please visit http://www.lincolninternational.com/industries/electronics/ .
For more information on Lincoln's Global Packaging Sector, please visit http://www.lincolninternational.com/industries/packaging/ .
About Lincoln International
Lincoln International specializes in merger and acquisition advisory services, debt advisory services, private capital raising and restructuring advice on mid-market transactions. Lincoln International also provides fairness opinions, valuations and joint ventures and partnering advisory services on a wide range of transaction sizes. With nineteen offices in the Americas, Asia and Europe, Lincoln International has strong local knowledge and contacts in key global economies. The firm provides clients with senior-level attention, in-depth industry expertise and integrated resources. By being focused and independent, Lincoln International serves its clients without conflicts of interest.
More information about Lincoln International can be obtained at www.lincolninternational.com
Media Contact: Heidi Becker
+1 (312) 506-2739
hbecker@lincolninternational.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lincoln-international-represents-farol-asset-management-fulham--co-brooke-private-equity-associates-and-management-shareholders-in-the-sale-of-delphon-industries-to-pwp-growth-equity-300581443.html
SOURCE Lincoln International LLC