VICTORIA, Texas, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Post Acute Medical, LLC (PAM), announced today that it will relocate PAM Specialty Hospital of Victoria North, which is currently located at 102 Medical Drive, to Citizens Medical Center, 2701 Hospital Drive.
Following renovations to the new location, the long-term acute care hospital will be housed within the medical center and is expected to open by the end of 2018.
"Having Post Acute Medical, which is committed to providing high-quality care, onsite at Citizens Medical Center provides patients with exceptional care when they need continued acute treatment beyond their appropriate hospital stay. The transition to this care will be much simpler for the patients and physicians, since they won't need to leave the building. We look forward to the benefits this new opportunity will bring to our patients, physicians, and our hospital," says Mike Olson, Citizens Medical Center CEO.
Once the move is complete, Post Acute Medical will expand PAM Rehabilitation Hospital of Victoria, which is adjacent to the specialty hospital's current location at 101 James Coleman Drive, beyond its current 26-bed capacity. The size of the expansion has yet to be determined.
"Post Acute Medical is pleased to make these enhancements to our hospital operations in Victoria that meet the changing healthcare needs of the community," says Anthony Misitano, PAM president and CEO. "Throughout all the communities we serve, we put the patient first and provide comprehensive, individualized treatment that fosters meaningful improvement and recovery for people with injuries, illnesses, and disabilities."
About Post Acute Medical, LLC:
Post Acute Medical, LLC, (PAM) based in Enola, Pa., provides post-acute healthcare services through 26 long-term acute care hospitals and medical rehabilitation hospitals, as well as multiple outpatient physical therapy locations, in seven states. PAM is committed to providing high-quality patient care and outstanding customer service, coupled with loyalty and dedication of highly trained staff, to be the most trusted source for post-acute services in every community it serves. Our mission is to serve people by providing compassionate, expert care and to support recovery through education and research. Learn more at www.postacutemedical.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pam-specialty-hospital-of-victoria-north-to-relocate-300582772.html
SOURCE Post Acute Medical