SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Audentes Therapeutics, Inc. (Nasdaq: BOLD), a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on developing and commercializing gene therapy products for patients living with serious, life-threatening rare diseases, announced today that it intends to offer $150.0 million of its common stock in an underwritten public offering. In addition, Audentes intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $22.5 million of its common stock offered in the public offering at the public offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. All of the shares will be offered and sold by Audentes. The offering is subject to market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the offering may be completed, or as to the actual size or terms of the offering.
BofA Merrill Lynch, Cowen and Leerink Partners are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. Wedbush PacGrow is acting as co-manager.
The public offering will be made pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that was filed by Audentes with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on August 8, 2017 and declared effective by the SEC on August 23, 2017. A preliminary prospectus supplement relating to and describing the terms of the offering will be filed with the SEC and will be available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . A copy of the preliminary prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained from BofA Merrill Lynch, NC1-004-03-43, 200 North College Street, 3rd floor, Charlotte, NC 28255-0001, Attention: Prospectus Department or by email at dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com ; Cowen and Company, LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Services, Attention: Prospectus Department, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717 or by telephone at (631) 274-2806; or Leerink Partners LLC, Attention: Syndicate Department, One Federal Street, 37th Floor, Boston, MA 02110, or by email at syndicate@leerink.com , or by telephone at (800) 808-7525, ext. 6132.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains within the meaning of the U.S. Private 1995 and other federal securities laws. Any statements contained herein that do not describe historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the size and completion of the proposed offering, are that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in such . Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, the risks identified in Audentes' filings with the SEC, the prospectus related to the offering, and subsequent filings with the SEC. Any of these risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect Audentes' results of operations, which would, in turn, have a significant and adverse impact on Audentes' stock price. Audentes cautions you not to place undue reliance on any , which speak only as of the date they are made. Audentes undertakes no publicly any to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Audentes Contacts:
Investor Contact:
Andrew Chang, Investor Relations
415.818.1033
ir@audentestx.com
Media Contact:
Paul Laland
415.519.6610
media@audentestx.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/audentes-therapeutics-announces-proposed-public-offering-of-common-stock-300586980.html
SOURCE Audentes Therapeutics, Inc.