BEIJING, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- China Distance Education Holdings Limited (NYSE: DL) ("CDEL", or the "Company"), a leading provider of online education and value-added services for professionals and corporate clients in China, today announced that it has filed its annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The annual report can be accessed on the Company's investor relations website at http://ir.cdeledu.com under the section titled "Financials - Annual Reports."
CDEL will provide a hard copy of its complete audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, free of charge, to its shareholders and ADS holders upon request. Requests should be directed to our IR representatives stated below, or in writing to China Distance Education Holdings Limited, 18th Floor, Xueyuan International Tower, 1 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing China, 100083.
About China Distance Education Holdings Limited
China Distance Education Holdings Limited is a leading provider of online education and value-added services for professionals and corporate clients in China. The courses offered by the Company through its websites are designed to help professionals seeking to obtain and maintain professional licenses and to enhance their job skills through our professional development courses in China in the areas of accounting, healthcare, engineering & construction, and other industries. The Company also offers professional education courses for participants in the national judicial examination, online test preparation courses for self-taught learners pursuing higher education diplomas or degrees, test preparation courses for university students intending to take the nationwide graduate school entrance exam, practical accounting training courses for college students and working professionals, as well as online language courses and third-party developed online courses. In addition, the Company provides business services to corporate clients, including but not limited to tax advisory and accounting outsourcing services. For further information, please visit http://ir.cdeledu.com .
Contacts:
China Distance Education Holdings Limited
Investor Relations Department
Tel: +86-10-8231-9999 ext 1805
Email: IR@cdeledu.com
The Piacente Group | Investor Relations
Brandi Piacente
Tel: +1 212-481-2050
Email: dl@tpg-ir.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/china-distance-education-holdings-limited-files-annual-report-on-form-20-f-300589391.html
SOURCE China Distance Education Holdings Limited