9 COMMENTS The bonuses and wage increases companies have been handing out since the tax plan passed won’t weigh very heavily on profit margins. The environment that engendered them will.
The day Congress sent the tax-reform legislation to President Donald Trump to sign, AT&T and Comcast said they would be giving $1,000 bonuses to their workers and Wells Fargo and Fifth Third Bancorp announced they would be boosting their minimum wages . That initial trickle soon turned into a flood as other companies rushed to make announcements of their own. Nearly 200 companies have announced that they were giving out bonuses, increasing wages or taking other employee-friendly steps as a result of tax cuts.
Companies’ largess doesn’t seem quite so large if you look a little closer. Consider JetBlue Airways , which will be giving out a $1,000 bonus to 21,000 employees. That comes to less than a penny (pretax) a share. In comparison with the lower tax bill it will get as a result of a reduced corporate tax rate and being able to immediately write down the full value of capital investments, it doesn’t amount to much. Bonuses also have the advantage, from a profits perspective, of being one-time deals that don’t put companies on the hook for a recurring cost like wage increases do.
Before deciding the bonuses and raises won’t be so costly, however, consider what is motivating them. True, lower taxes free up more money to devote to labor. From a political perspective, it also can be helpful to shuffle a little tax-cut cash toward workers. A tight labor market is probably the biggest reason, though.
Paul Kasriel, an economic adviser to Legacy Private Trust, points out that companies have a responsibility to maximize shareholder returns, and even when they accept higher labor costs they are bearing this in mind. “This idea that people who run businesses have this innate desire to share profits with workers is naive,” he says.
Rather, they give their employees more money when market conditions force them to. With the unemployment rate low and unfilled job openings high, losing workers to a competitor can be more costly than handing out bonuses. Indeed, the concentration of tax-cut bonuses and raises in certain industries suggests one reason companies handed them out was that they didn’t want their employees to view them as stingier than competitors. Several airlines and dozens of banks got on the bandwagon.
So the real news in the flurry of bonuses and raises might be that the job market has tightened to the point where wage growth, which has long been stagnant, is beginning to pick up. As that occurs, more companies will need to hand over more money to employees. The tax cut will make it easier, but they will still have to pay.
Write to Justin Lahart at justin.lahart@wsj.com