David Evans Shaw joins a select group of senior executives to collaborate and influence healthcare industry trends
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- LEERINK Partners, a leading healthcare investment bank, announced that David Evans Shaw has joined the LEERINK Advisory Council (LAC) – a group of senior executives from the healthcare industry who collaborate to identify and influence healthcare industry trends. The LAC shares a common interest in the scientific, clinical and technological advancements that will shape the healthcare industry and, more specifically, the professionals and companies that will bring these innovations to market.
Mr. Shaw founded IDEXX Laboratories, a world leader in the veterinary diagnostic industry and a multinational corporation on the S&P 500. In addition to IDEXX, David’s experience also includes Ikaria Pharmaceuticals (Founding CEO, Chair); Sapphire Energy; Ironwood Pharmaceuticals; Vets First Choice (Co-Founder, Chair); Itaconix; Modern Meadow; Cyteir; Cytyc; Physion; Venrock Associates; MyTaskIt; New Mountain Capital; Polaris Venture Partners and others. He has served as chair of The Jackson Laboratory, trustee of the National Park Foundation, treasurer of AAAS, trustee of Maine Medical Center, co-chair of Aspen Institute oceans initiative, fellow of the Kennedy School of Government, member of the Explorers Club and other non-profit organizations.
“We are excited to have David join our Advisory Council,” said Jeff Leerink, Chairman and CEO of LEERINK Partners. “He is a visionary with exceptional leadership skills and his experience in investing across the healthcare industry will make him a great addition to our esteemed group of LAC members.”
“I feel very fortunate to have played a leadership role – with extraordinarily talented teams – in building companies that have created exceptional value for customers, investors and other stakeholders in healthcare and related markets,” said Mr. Shaw. “I have long admired LEERINK and I share their commitment to seeking a brighter future in healthcare via innovative products and services.”
Mr. Shaw joins Bill Rastetter, Jim Tobin, David Pyott and Francois Nader on the LEERINK Advisory Council.
About LEERINK Partners
LEERINK Partners LLC is a leading investment bank, specializing in healthcare. Our knowledge, experience and focus enable us to help our clients define and achieve their strategic, capital markets and investment objectives. We partner with companies that develop and commercialize innovative products and services that are defining the future of healthcare. LEERINK Partners LLC is a member of FINRA/SIPC. For more information, please visit: www.leerink.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005362/en/
LEERINK Partners
Diane Vieira, 617-918-4097
or
Weber Shandwick
Kate Contreras, 617-520-7088
Source: LEERINK Partners