MASHANTUCKET, Conn., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Foxwoods® Resort Casino , the premier resort destination in the Northeast, today announced that Jesse Luis has joined the team as Vice President of Development. Luis brings over two decades of experience in real estate and hospitality growth initiatives to the resort.
"We are thrilled to have Jesse join our team as the Vice President of Development," said Felix Rappaport, President & CEO of Foxwoods. "Jesse's impressive experience, which includes strategically expanding everything from popular quick service restaurants to luxury resort hotels, will prove invaluable as Foxwoods looks to bolster our exciting development opportunities in 2018 and beyond."
Holding several leadership roles throughout his career, Luis most recently served as the Senior Vice President of Real Estate Development for the Newark Community Economic Development Corporation where he expedited commercial, hotel, industrial, residential and retail real estate development efforts. Prior to his time working for the city of Newark, Luis was the Vice President of North America Development for Dolce Hotels and Resorts from 2012 to 2014, the Vice President of Real Estate Development Services for Choice Hotels International from 2008 to 2011 and the Vice President of North America Real Estate for Marriot International from 2007 to 2008.
As Foxwoods' Vice President of Development, Luis will lead the charge on developing and recommending strategic operation plans for new ventures as well as analyzing and assessing current and potential new business opportunities. He will also work to redevelop existing spaces such as Foxwoods' retail concourse, and will offer his input for business plans and budgets to further expand Foxwoods' status as a fully integrated resort casino that offers unique guest experiences.
"I am delighted to be a part of the extraordinary leadership team at Foxwoods Resort Casino," said Luis. "I look forward to applying my past experience in the areas of acquisition and development to further enhance plans already in place at Foxwoods, and ideate even more initiatives to solidify Foxwoods' reputation as the Wonder Of It All!"
About Foxwoods Resort Casino
25 Years Proud : Since 1992, Foxwoods Resort Casino has offered guests The Wonder Of It All as the premier resort destination in the Northeast. As the largest resort casino in North America, Foxwoods offers a vast array of gaming in seven casinos; AAA Four-Diamond hotels, restaurants from gourmet to quick service, world-renowned spas, award-winning golf, state-of-the-art theaters, exclusive retailers and free-to-play online casino games at FoxwoodsONLINE.com . Foxwoods is owned and operated by the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation and was the first full-service casino built on tribal land, pioneering a nationwide movement that now includes more than 400 gaming properties owned and operated by over 200 tribes across the U.S. For more information on Foxwoods and the property's 25 th anniversary celebrations, visit foxwoods.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/foxwoods-resort-casino-names-jesse-luis-as-vice-president-of-development-300575891.html
SOURCE Foxwoods Resort Casino