SANTA MONICA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Skydance Media, a diversified media company that creates event-level entertainment for global audiences, has named Brad Carlson as Executive Vice President of Feature Film Physical Production, effective immediately. In this newly created role, Carlson is responsible for managing the production and operations for the Company’s upcoming slate of films.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006545/en/
Brad Carlson, EVP of Feature Film Physical Production (Photo: Business Wire)
“As Skydance heads into 2018 with a robust feature slate, we are thrilled that Brad has joined us to head physical production for our film division,” said Skydance’s President of Feature Film Production Don Granger, to whom Carlson will report. “Over his years at Paramount, Brad has proven there’s no one better at protecting a filmmaker’s vision and ensuring that the very best movie gets onto the screen. Brad is already putting together a stellar team to lead Skydance’s efforts at delivering exciting worldwide entertainment.”
Skydance Media’s 2018 feature film releases includes Annihilation, a science-fiction thriller with Natalie Portman set to release February 23 and the highly anticipated sixth Mission: Impossible movie starring Tom Cruise which hits theaters this summer. Ang Lee’s Gemini Man starring Will Smith and Terminator produced by James Cameron and directed by Tim Miller are both slated for a 2019 release.
“I’ve been very fortunate to work closely with David, Dana and Don over the years on the Mission: Impossible, Star Trek and Jack Reacher franchises,” added Carlson. “Skydance is an exciting, vibrant, and growing company with strong leadership and a compelling vision for where entertainment is heading. I look forward to joining the team to help bring great films to life that will entertain global audiences.”
Prior to joining Skydance, Carlson served as Senior Vice President Feature Film Physical Production for Paramount Pictures, where he oversaw and managed the day-to-day operations of multiple feature films in various stages of production including the upcoming Mission: Impossible 6, Star Trek Beyond, Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation, Baywatch, Jack Reacher: Never Go Back, Cloverfield, and Super 8. Carlson began his career at New Line Cinema and holds a B.S. degree from Syracuse University.
About Skydance Media
Skydance is a diversified media company founded by David Ellison in 2010 to create high quality, event-level entertainment for global audiences. The Company brings to life stories of immersive worlds across its feature film, television, and interactive platforms. Its feature films include LIFE, Jack Reacher: Never Go Back, Star Trek Beyond, Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation, Terminator Genisys, World War Z, Star Trek Into Darkness, G.I. Joe: Retaliation, Geostorm, Jack Reacher, Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol, and True Grit. Skydance’s next feature film to release is Annihilation on February 23rd. In 2017, Skydance formed an animation division to develop and produce a slate of high-end feature films and television series in partnership with Spain’s Ilion Animation Studios. Skydance Television launched in 2013. Its current slate includes Emmy-nominated Grace and Frankie on Netflix, Altered Carbon on Netflix, Jack Ryan on Amazon, Condor on AT&T Audience Network, Ten Days in the Valley on ABC, and Dietland on AMC. Skydance Interactive launched in 2016 to create and publish original and IP-based virtual reality experiences and video games. Skydance Interactive’s first VR offering, Archangel, launched in the summer of 2017 across all VR platforms.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006545/en/
Skydance
Dawn Lach, 424.291.3483
DLach@skydance.com
Source: Skydance Media