ATLANTA, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Bemax Inc. (OTCBB: BMXC), a growing global distributor of disposable diapers, is pleased to provide business operations update, and revenue projections for full fiscal year 2017 and 2018 respectively.
The extensive global marketing outreaches embarked upon by the company throughout last year has positioned the company to project revenue increase of over 100% for current quarter compared to same period of last year. The same increase is projected for the fiscal year end of May 31, 2018.
Financial Outlook
Full Year 2018 - Bemax Inc. revenue outlook is projected to a range of $1.5million to $2.2 million with estimated net profit margin in the range of $200,000 to $440,000.
Current Quarter and Full Year 2017(Fiscal Year End – May 31, 2018)
Total revenue in the current third quarter for period ending February 28, 2018 is projected to be in the range of $150,000 to $200,000. For fiscal year end of May 31, 2018, revenue is projected to be in the range of $500,000 to $600,000 which would be a growth rate of 246% to 315% compared to year ended May 31, 2017.
Business Outlook
The following statements are based on Bemax's current expectations for the fiscal year 2017 and full year 2018. These statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially.
The company will launch in 2018 two new private label products of Baby wipes and sanitary pads for women. The company will commence the construction of an assembly plant for installation of two disposable diaper production lines to service the emerging markets. The company estimate the launch of a four year share repurchase program before end of fiscal year 2018 to enhance shareholders value. The company will continue to negotiate new competitive pricing with existing Bemax private label manufacturers and distributors to increase sales.
"We are extremely pleased with the interest we've seen this quarter for our private label product, especially with Mother's Touch and we believe this is only the beginning for the company's private label product line and for our online marketing business," stated Taiwo Aimasiko, CEO of Bemax. "Overall, the company's operations, and foundation for profitable growth are all stronger today than ever before."
About Bemax Inc.
Bemax Inc. exports and distributes Disposable Baby Diapers from the U.S. to emerging markets in Africa and Europe. We also export our private label brands from manufacturers in Asia and distribute to other growing markets. Bemax focuses on an extensive and far-reaching global network among wholesalers, large discounting retailers and supermarkets as well as entry into the ecommerce arena to reach households directly through subscription orders. We focus to supply our clients with disposable baby diapers from manufacturers in North America where quality is superior. Please visit the company website at www.bemaxinc.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that can be identified by terminology such as "believes," "expects," "potential," "plans," "suggests," "may," "should," "could," "intends," or similar expressions. Many forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results or implied by such statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, our ability to continue to enhance our products and systems to address industry changes, our ability to expand our customer base and retain existing customers, our ability to effectively compete in our market segment, the lack of public information on our company, our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our business, operations, our ability to continue as a going concern, and a limited public market for our common stock, among other risks. Many factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond the company's control. Forward-looking statements speak only as to the date they are made and we do not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bemax-inc-releases-revenue-projections-of-22million-for-full-year-2018-300585403.html
SOURCE Bemax Inc.