Company Continues to Enhance Its Integrated Platform to Deliver End-to-End Solutions for Maritime-Oriented Transportation Investment and Advisory Banking Clients
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Seabury Maritime PFRA (“SMPFRA”), the global maritime and transportation investment bank and industry advisory, and a division of Seabury Capital LLC (“Seabury Capital”), announced today the appointment of Patrick Bird as Managing Director, Advisory.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006248/en/
Seabury Maritime PFRA appoints Patrick Bird as Managing Director, Advisory, to further enhance delivery of its maritime-oriented transportation investment and advisory banking solutions (Photo: Business Wire)
Bird joins SMPFRA’s leadership to further advance the company’s strategy to provide an integrated platform to its clients that delivers an end-to-end solution for their maritime-oriented transportation investment banking and consultancy needs.
Based in the company’s New Jersey-based Metro Park office, Bird will report to Seabury Maritime PFRA President & Chief Executive Officer Edward M.A. Zimny, who commented: “Patrick is a highly-qualified individual with a track record of delivering solutions and services that benefit customers. The maritime industry is in both a critical and opportunistic environment right now – and this is a time when SMPFRA’s capabilities will provide valuable insights and resources.”
Patrick Henry Dowling, Global Head of Investment & Merchant Banking, and President & CEO of Seabury Corporate Finance, added: “Patrick, with his worldwide maritime advisory experience and keen commercial insights, will strengthen our long-established maritime investment banking capabilities with a one-stop solution. Patrick is joining a top-notch management team with Ed, as SMPFRA’s President & CEO, along with industry veterans Henry Juan III, Global Head of Maritime Investment Banking, and Jonathan Montbach, Global Head of Maritime Specialty Finance, to bring to the market an experience and visionary approach to today’s maritime industry.”
Prior to joining SMPFRA, Bird held the position of Chief Commercial Officer with Intels Nigeria Limited, part of the Orlean Invest Group, located in Onne, Nigeria. Previously, he also served as General Manager – Infrastructure Investments Africa, the Middle East and India with APM Terminals (“APMT”). Bird began his career in 2005 at A.P. Moller Maersk Group, the parent company of APMT, where he held a number of positions with increasing responsibility on a global basis. Bird has extensive shipping project management experience in both commercial and operational areas.
Bird earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management (International Business) from the Pennsylvania State University and completed his A.P. Moller-Maersk Management Training, MAGNUM and MISE programs.
ABOUT SEABURY MARITIME PFRA
Seabury Maritime PFRA (“SMPFRA”) was formed as a maritime-centric entity by Paul F. Richardson Associates (“PFRA”) and Seabury Capital LLC (“Seabury Capital”) to offer a suite of comprehensive industry solutions utilizing Seabury Capital’s existing worldwide operating platform. SMPFRA includes traditional maritime-oriented advisory core competencies such as operational analysis, strategic planning, financial evaluations, master and business planning, supply chain design/integration, transaction advisory, due diligence, market & competitive intelligence, economic impacts, asset optimizations, procurement, and industry technology applications.
Paul F. Richardson Associates, Inc. (“PFRA”) was founded in 1977 with the firm successfully delivering advisory assignments for international and domestic corporations, ocean, air and rail carriers, port authorities, terminal operators, labor unions/management, financial institutions, infrastructure developers, government agencies and legal counsel.
ABOUT SEABURY CAPITAL
Seabury Capital LLC (“Seabury Capital”) operates a number of specialty finance, investment banking, technology and software companies with a core focus anchored in aviation, aerospace & defense, maritime, and financial services/technology. Since its founding in 1996, Seabury Capital has historically been the investment holding company of its founder, John E. Luth, operating as a venture capital firm with ownership stakes in software and asset management businesses servicing the aviation and travel industries. Within the last few years, Seabury Capital has expanded its portfolio by investing in early stage startup companies within the financial technology industry and structured investment products. In addition, Seabury Capital owns and operates FINRA regulated investment banking services firms in the U.S. and U.K. serving external clients as well as assisting the companies in which Seabury Capital has invested. Seabury Capital has operations in New York, Jersey City, Summit (NJ), Los Angeles, Minneapolis, Stamford (CT), Amsterdam, Berlin, Cordoba, Dublin, Durban, Hong Kong, London, Manila, Singapore, and Tokyo. www.seaburycapital.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006248/en/
Seabury Maritime PFRA
Paul Thibeau, +1-612-263-6953
pthibeau@seaburycapital.com
Source: Seabury Maritime PFRA