AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 26, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Via OTC PR Wire -- Bravatek Solutions, Inc. (OTCPink:BVTK) ("Bravatek" or the "Company") announces that its Chairman and CEO, Dr. Thomas A. Cellucci, has been appointed to the Board of Directors of DarkPulse Technologies ("DPT"). He is now a member of the Board of Directors of both the US and Canadian entities.
Mr. Dennis O'Leary, DPT's Chairman and Founder, commented: "We are very excited to have Tom join the DPT family. He has been instrumental to us as a business partner thus far, and we look forward to him lending his technical and business skills to catapult DPT across the globe."
Dr. Thomas A. Cellucci, Chairman and CEO of BVTK, commented: "I am sincerely honored to join the DPT team. I have seen up-close how DPT's technologies and solutions can change the security landscape. It's my honor to assist this team of dedicated professionals."
About Bravatek Solutions, Inc.
Bravatek Solutions, Inc. is a high technology security solutions portfolio provider that assists corporate entities, governments and individuals protect their organizations against both physical and cyber-attacks through its offering of the most technically-advanced, cost-effective and reliable software, tools and systems.
For more information, visit www.bravatek.com
About DarkPulse Technologies, Inc.
DarkPulse Technologies, Inc. is a global technology provider in the business of manufacturing, selling, installing, servicing and monitoring systems, including hardware and software that detects changes in the structural health of infrastructure. Their security solutions offer 24/7 monitoring of perimeters and detection of tunneling along national borders.
For more information, visit www.DarkPulse.com
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements," as defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and the actual results and future events could differ materially from management's current expectations. The economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors identified in the Company's previous filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements in this press release. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Media contact:
Bravatek Solutions, Inc.
media@bravatek.com
1.866.490.8590
Source: Bravatek Solutions, Inc.