Getty Images JetBlue airplanes wait at the gates outside terminal five at John F. Kennedy International Airport on January 4, 2018 in the Queens borough of New York City. A winter storm is traveling up the east coast of the United States dumping snow and creating blizzard like conditions in many areas. Days after a powerful winter storm took aim at the Northeast, air travel chaos continues, raising the question of whether Monday will bring any relief. 
New York's John F. Kennedy International airport was the cause of many travelers' grief this weekend, in large part because of the inclement weather . On Saturday, an Aeroflot flight from Moscow bound for New York turned back about halfway through the trip, while dozens of other inbound flights were diverted to other U.S. airports.
Widebody planes that just arrived at JFK, carrying thousands of passengers from all corners of the globe, sat on taxiways for hours. Meanwhile, passengers inside were left to deal with long delays, while some struggled to get information about their flights.
This was the fallout of a snowstorm that prompted the nearly 24-hour closure of JFK, which received more than 31 million international travelers in 2016 — more than any other U.S. airport. The bottleneck was so severe a day after the airport opened, the Federal Aviation Administration limited the number of flights destined for three of the airport's terminals on Saturday.
More than 5,000 flights were canceled because of the storm, according to FlightAware, a flight-tracking site. More than 200 flight in and out of JFK were delayed and 42 were canceled on Sunday.
However, delays around the country are expected to be minimal on Monday, according to FlightAware. That would be a welcome reprieve for both leisure and business travelers, many of whom are hitting the road after the holidays for conferences around the country and beyond.
JFK halted operations during the storm, opening the following day, which kicked off a days' long scramble for access to gates. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport, said low temperatures after the storm made it more difficult to operate ground equipment, causing further delays.
U.S. and international airlines, including British Airways, have said they will waive date-change fees for travelers booked into JFK and other area airports, for flights as late as Jan. 8 if they can fly a different day next week.
Correction: The Aeroflot from Moscow was forced to turn around on Saturday.