NEW YORK, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Attorney Advertising -- Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC notifies investors that a class action lawsuit has been filed against The Crypto Company ("Crypto" or the "Company") (OTCMKTS: CRCW) and certain of its officers, on behalf of shareholders who purchased Crypto securities between August 21, 2017, and December 18, 2017, both dates inclusive ("Class Period"). Such investors are encouraged to join this case by visiting the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/crcw .
This class action seeks to recover damages against Defendants for alleged violations of the federal securities laws under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Complaint alleges that, throughout the Class Period, Defendants made materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (1) Crypto unlawfully engaged in a scheme to promote and manipulate the Company's stock; and (2) as a result, Crypto's public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times.
On December 19, 2017, the SEC temporarily suspended Crypto stock from trading due to concerns that the stock was being manipulated after the shares surged more than 17,000% in less than 3 months. The SEC said it was alarmed about "the accuracy and adequacy of information" relating to the compensation paid for promotion of its and statements in SEC filings about the plans of the Company's insiders to sell their stock. Crypto stock was trading at $575 per share at the time trading was suspended and the suspension will remain in effect until January 3, 2018.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to review a copy of the Complaint you can visit the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/crcw or you may contact Peretz Bronstein, Esq. or his Investor Relations Analyst, Yael Hurwitz of Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC at 212-697-6484. If you suffered a loss in Liberty Tax you have until February 20, 2018 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff.
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC is a corporate litigation boutique. Our primary expertise is the aggressive pursuit of litigation claims on behalf of our clients. In addition to representing institutions and other investor plaintiffs in class action security litigation, the firm's expertise includes general corporate and commercial litigation, as well as securities arbitration. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes.
Contact:
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC
Peretz Bronstein or Yael Hurwitz
212-697-6484 | info@bgandg.com
View original content with multimedia: releases/shareholder-alert---bronstein-gewirtz--grossman-llc-notifies-investors-of-class-action-against-the-crypto-company-crcw--lead-plaintiff-deadline-february-20-2018-300578409.html
SOURCE Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC