HONG KONG, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Sino Green Land Corp (OTCQB:SGLA) (the "Company" or "SGLA"), today we are pleased to announce that we will be applying for a name change with FINAR. We are also very pleased to announce that we have signed a MOU with one major virtual currency agent in Asia and the agent is specialized in dealing with Roma coin.
We will be update a further updated website and updated information. Last but not least, a further press release will be updated you the company and further company statistics.
About SGLA
SGLA is primarily engaged in providing investment holding company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “would” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this release. In evaluating such statements, prospective investors should review carefully various risks and uncertainties identified in this release and matters set forth in the Company’s SEC filings. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
Contact:
SGLA
Unit C, 8/F, MG Tower,
133 Hoi Bun Road,
Kwun Tong, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
Contact: Chan Kin Hang
Telephone: 852-6992-7100
Source:Sino Green Land Corp