LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Miracle Mile Advisors , one of California's fastest growing independent investment advisory firms, has expanded its team by adding investment advisor Melissa Estrada . Estrada, who joins the firm's recently renovated West Los Angeles headquarters, specializes in working with clients to structure comprehensive, goal-based financial plans.
Estrada comes to Miracle Mile Advisors following a six-year tenure with Edward Jones investments, where she advised clients on investment allocation and planning. Her industry credentials include the Chartered Financial Consultant designation, which she earned from the American College, along with the designation of Certified Financial Planner.
"Melissa is a wonderful advisor. She is a true advocate for her clients, and it shows in her results. We are very excited to welcome her to our team," says Judith Lu, partner at Miracle Mile Advisors.
Prior to entering the financial field, Estrada served for six years in the United States Marine Corps. During her service, she obtained the rank of sergeant, with a nine-month deployment to Najaf, Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. She developed a unique skill set and service style during her time in the Marines, and she regularly applies those qualities while working with her clients, particularly while addressing sensitive matters.
"I have partnered with Miracle Mile Advisors because of our shared 'client first' agenda. I greatly admire the firm's forward-thinking focus on planning along with its contemporary client service model. I look forward to many years of shared success to come," says Estrada.
For media inquiries, please contact Brian Hart at (866) 225-0920 ext. 101 or brian@flackable.com .
About Miracle Mile Advisors: Miracle Mile Advisors is a leader in providing independent investment advice through active indexing to high net worth families and businesses nationwide. As one of the fastest growing independent registered investment advisors in Los Angeles, the firm is committed to providing sophisticated financial plans using portfolios with low cost and tax efficient strategies. To learn more about Miracle Mile Advisors, please visit www.miraclemileadvisors.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/miracle-mile-advisors-expands-team-by-adding-melissa-estrada-300581510.html
SOURCE Miracle Mile Advisors