CARLSBAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Leading spinal solutions provider Spinal Elements today announced that Paul Graveline has joined the company as its Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. In his new role, Mr. Graveline will have responsibility for all of the commercial efforts of Spinal Elements.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005125/en/
Spine Industry Veteran Paul Graveline Joins Spinal Elements (Photo: Business Wire)
“Paul is very well known in our industry and has a tremendous depth of experience in building and leading organizations,” said Jason Blain, President and CEO of Spinal Elements. “His leadership and experience will be an invaluable addition to our efforts as Spinal Elements continues to grow both in the United States and abroad. We are all very excited to have Paul on the Spinal Elements team.”
Mr. Graveline brings more than 20 years of experience in surgical spine technology. His past positions include Global Vice President of Sales for Zimmer Biomet Spine, Chief Operating Officer for Zimmer Spine, and Vice President of Sales for Stryker Spine.
“This is a talented group of people and the quality of the products is tremendous. With new expandable technologies, an interspinous process device, and a differentiated lateral access platform all launching this year, this is an exciting time to join Spinal Elements,” said Graveline, adding, “The technology we have available today combined with what is in our development pipeline makes this an amazing opportunity to create something special in our industry.”
About Spinal Elements
Spinal Elements is an outcomes-driven spinal surgical solutions company with locations in Carlsbad, CA and Marietta, GA. A leading designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative medical devices used in spinal surgical procedures, our mission is to combine leading medical device technologies, biologics and instrumentation to create positive surgical outcomes that exceed surgeon and patient expectations. For more information, please visit www.amendia.com or www.spinalelements.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005125/en/
for Spinal Elements
Laura Charlton (formerly Johnson)
(760) 450-7749 cell
laurajohnsonpr@yahoo.com
Source: Spinal Elements