The pharmaceutical services leader will help guide the company’s growth and expansion in the life sciences industry
NORWALK, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- HealthPrize Technologies, the global leader in adherence and patient engagement technology for the life sciences industry, announced today the appointment of Michael A. Griffith ( view photo ) as Executive Chairman. Mr. Griffith is Former President of the Commercial Division of inVentiv Health, a leading global provider of commercialization solutions to the pharmaceutical industry. He brings to HealthPrize more than 20 years of executive-level expertise in such services. In his capacity as Executive Chairman, Griffith will support the HealthPrize executive team during a period of rapid growth and investment, focusing primarily on company building, capital raising, mergers and acquisitions and client engagement.
“HealthPrize’s technology, proven to enhance revenue by improving adherence, education, and brand loyalty, has the potential to become a central pillar of any life science strategy to engage and motivate patients with the twin goals of increasing revenue and improving patient outcomes,” said Griffith. “Because of this, the company is uniquely positioned for rapid growth over the foreseeable future. I am eager to help guide the expansion of its platform, team and financial resources.”
Griffith joined HealthPrize’s Board of Directors in December 2017, alongside ZS Associates Principal Hensley Evans . His appointment coincides with a period of unprecedented growth for the Norwalk, Connecticut–based digital health company , with multiple domestic and global program launches planned for 2018. The company’s commercial success is driving the need to significantly increase the size of its staff in 2018, particularly in product development and client services.
“We are pleased that Michael has accepted the role as Executive Chairman,” said Tom Kottler, CEO and Co-founder of HealthPrize. “2018 will be a critical expansion year for HealthPrize, and Michael’s decades of expertise leading high-growth companies will be of utmost value to us as we expand to serve our life science clients.”
Griffith continues to serve as Operating Partner of the San Francisco–based private equity firm Altamont Capital Partners. He was formerly CEO at Laureate Biopharma, a contract development and manufacturing company specializing in protein therapeutics; Founder and CEO of Aptuit, a contract drug development company; and Chairman and CEO of ChiRex, a contract drug-development and manufacturing company.
Life science companies worldwide use HealthPrize’s technology to develop digital patient experiences that improve adherence, increase health literacy and provide brand differentiation. The company’s gamification- and behavioral economics–based platform powers and advances patient engagement for branded and generic medications across all therapeutic areas, demographics and drug-delivery methods.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005370/en/
HealthPrize Technologies
Vishal Khanna, 203-957-3793
vkhanna@healthprize.com
Source: HealthPrize Technologies