AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Twyla , the contemporary art site for discovering and buying exclusive limited-edition prints, today announced Thomas Galbraith as new CEO. He replaces co-founder and acting CEO Brian Sharples who continues to serve as company chairman.
Galbraith, formerly Managing Director of online auction company Paddle8, has a wealth of experience growing luxury brands and art e-commerce platforms. At Paddle8 he helped scale the company from a startup to a global brand, leading the profit center, a 60-person team and increasing sales 350% each year. Galbraith also founded and is a former partner at The Petraeus Group where he provided his services to clients including Marc Jacobs, artnet, Art Dubai and Arthena.
"I strongly believe in Twyla's goal to make beautiful art accessible and I was drawn to the company because I see a big opportunity to expand on this vision by broadening the product and services we offer, how we source art and who we sell to," says Galbraith.
Under Galbraith's direction, Twyla today launched a financing option giving consumers the ability to buy now and pay over time. Plans also include subscriptions for corporations, building art collections to help inspire employees and partnering with local arts organizations to bring new talent to the fold and give back to communities. The latter initiative will kick-off in Twyla's hometown of Austin.
"Thomas has helped grow some of the of the biggest names in the online art world and so I'm confident he's the right person to take Twyla to the next level," says Sharples. "His expertise and passion will introduce consumers to art they love while creating new revenue streams for the business."
Twyla will continue to make it easy for every customer — whether they be a first-time art buyer, interior designer or corporate client — to have beautiful art at the size and price that fits their needs.
About TWYLA
Twyla offers limited-edition works by vetted artists made exclusively for the company. Twyla is on a mission to bring affordable contemporary art into homes and offices across America while creating a new revenue stream for artists and the organizations that support them.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/twyla-taps-former-paddle8-executive-thomas-galbraith-as-new-ceo-300582621.html
SOURCE Twyla