PRINCETON, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE:NRG) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend on the Company’s common stock of $0.03 per share, or $0.12 per share on an annualized basis. The dividend is payable on February 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of February 1, 2018.
About NRG
NRG is the leading integrated power company in the U.S., built on the strength of our diverse competitive electric generation portfolio and leading retail electricity platform. A Fortune 500 company, NRG creates value through best in class operations, reliable and efficient electric generation, and a retail platform serving residential and commercial businesses. Working with electricity customers, large and small, we implement sustainable solutions for producing and managing energy, developing smarter energy choices and delivering exceptional service as our retail electricity providers serve almost three million residential and commercial customers throughout the country. More information is available at www.nrg.com . Connect with NRG Energy on Facebook and follow us on Twitter @nrgenergy.
Safe Harbor
This communication contains forward-looking statements that may state NRG’s or its management’s intentions, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “plan,” “believe” and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, risks and uncertainties related to the capital markets generally.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005074/en/
NRG Energy, Inc.
Media:
Marijke Shugrue, 609-524-5262
or
Investors:
Kevin L. Cole, CFA, 609-524-4526
Lindsey Puchyr, 609-524-4527
Source: NRG Energy, Inc.