NEW YORK, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on MOSY, AAOI, AMKR, and AXTI which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . For today, WallStEquities.com observes the recent performance of MoSys Inc. (NASDAQ: MOSY), Applied Optoelectronics Inc. (NASDAQ: AAOI), Amkor Technology Inc. (NASDAQ: AMKR), and AXT Inc. (NASDAQ: AXTI). Semiconductor Integrated Circuits companies design, manufacture, and sell processors for industrial use as well as parts for consumer and business devices. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
MoSys
California headquartered MoSys Inc.'s stock finished Monday's session 2.96% lower at $1.31 with a total trading volume of 100,190 shares. The Company's shares have surged 20.18% in the past month and 87.12% over the previous three months. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 2.44% and 16.53%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of MoSys, which together with its subsidiaries, develops and sells integrated circuits for the high-speed networking, communications, storage, and computing markets, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 47.32. Get the full research report on MOSY for free by clicking below at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=MOSY
Applied Optoelectronics
Shares in Texas headquartered Applied Optoelectronics Inc. ended at $33.33, plummeting 7.39% from the last trading session. The stock recorded a trading volume of 1.72 million shares, which was above its three months average volume of 1.51 million shares. The Company's shares have gained 7.00% over the past year. The stock is trading 15.41% below its 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Applied Optoelectronics, which designs, manufactures, and sells fiber-optic networking products primarily for Internet data center, CATV, and fiber-to-the-home networking end-markets, have an RSI of 36.89.
On January 18 th , 2018, Applied Optoelectronics announced that it will release its financial results for Q4 and year ended December 31 st , 2017 on February 21 st , 2018. The Company will host a conference call and webcast at 4:30 p.m. ET to discuss its 2017 financial results and outlook for Q1 2018. A live webcast of the conference call and supplemental financials will be accessible under the investor page of the Company's website.
On January 29 th , 2018, research firm Piper Jaffray downgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Overweight' to 'Neutral'. Gain free access to the research report on AAOI at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=AAOI
Amkor Technology
Tempe, Arizona headquartered Amkor Technology Inc.'s stock ended yesterday's session 0.10% lower at $10.34 with a total trading volume of 738,867 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 2.07% in the past month and 6.60% over the past year. The stock is trading 1.59% below its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of Amkor Technology, which provides outsourced semiconductor packaging and test services in the US and internationally, have an RSI of 43.98. Signing up today on Wall St. Equities will give you access to the latest report on AMKR at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=AMKR
AXT Inc.
On Monday, shares in Fremont, California headquartered AXT Inc. recorded a trading volume of 916,891 shares, which was above their three months average volume of 433,060 shares. The stock finished 7.39% lower at $8.15. The Company's shares have advanced 31.45% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 200-day moving average by 1.76%. Furthermore, shares of AXT Inc., which designs, develops, manufactures, and distributes compound and single element semiconductor substrates, have an RSI of 32.98.
On January 29 th , 2018, AXT Inc. announced that it will issue its financial results for Q4 FY17 and FY17 in a press release on February 21 st , 2018 immediately following the close of market. The Company will host a conference call at 1:30 p.m. PT that same day to discuss these results. The call will be simulcast on the Company's website. Register now for today's free coverage on AXTI at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=AXTI
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit
https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/semiconductor-stocks-research-reports-released-on-mosys-applied-optoelectronics-amkor-technology-and-axt-inc-300590087.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities