DALLAS, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Comerica Bank's California Economic Activity Index grew by 0.1 percent in October to 121.3. October's reading is 24 points, or 24 percent, above the index cyclical low of 97.8. The index averaged 118.6 points in 2016, two and three-tenths points above the average for all of 2015. September's index reading was revised to 121.1.
Comerica Bank's California Economic Activity Index increased again in October, after pulling out of a late summer stall in September. The index has increased in five out of the last seven months. The trends in California look generally positive heading into 2018, however the October 2017 reading of 121.3 is only 1.7 percent above the level for October 2016. Payroll employment, house prices, the Dow Jones Tech Stock Index and hotel occupancy were positives in October. Unemployment insurance claims (inverted), housing starts and total state trade were negatives. Industrial electricity consumption was neutral in October. The state endured record-setting wildfires in 2017 and is exposed to key Trump Administration policy changes, including tax reform and trade agreement renegotiations. The state's important residential construction sector will face some challenges in 2018. Even before the fall wildfires, California's construction industry was facing a labor shortage. Trade groups report ongoing difficulties in finding workers. Also, we expect mortgage interest rates to gradually increase in 2018, reducing housing affordability. Tax reform will have both positive and negative implications for housing in California. Limits on the mortgage interest deduction and on state and local tax deductions will be headwinds. However, the generally business friendly tax changes and expected reduction to personal taxes will be positives.
The California Economic Activity Index consists of eight variables, as follows: nonfarm payroll employment, continuing claims for unemployment insurance, housing starts, house price index, industrial electricity sales, total trade, technology stock index and hotel occupancy. All data are seasonally adjusted. Nominal values have been converted to constant dollar values. Index levels are expressed in terms of three-month moving averages.
Comerica Bank, with locations in the key California markets of San Francisco and the East Bay, San Jose, Los Angeles, Orange County, San Diego, Fresno, Sacramento, Santa Cruz/Monterey, and the Inland Empire, is a subsidiary of Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA). Comerica is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping businesses and people be successful.
To subscribe to our publications or for questions, contact us at ComericaEcon@comerica.com . Archives are available at http://www.comerica.com/economics . Follow us on Twitter: @Comerica_Econ.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/comerica-banks-california-index-ticks-up-300577109.html
SOURCE Comerica Bank