Webcast is Live at 7:30 a.m. (CT)
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Surmodics, Inc. (Nasdaq: SRDX), a leading provider of medical device and in vitro diagnostic technologies to the healthcare industry, today announced that it will host a live webcast of its first quarter fiscal 2018 conference call on Thursday, February 8, at 7:30 a.m. CT (8:30 a.m. ET). The Company will issue an earnings news release earlier that morning.
Gary Maharaj, president and chief executive officer, and Andy LaFrence, vice president of finance and information systems and chief financial officer, will recap the first quarter fiscal 2018 financial results and accomplishments. To access the webcast, go to the investor relations portion of the Company’s website at www.surmodics.com the day of the conference call and click on the webcast icon.
An audio replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, February 8, until 10:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, February 15, and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 and entering conference call ID passcode 8043861. In addition, the conference call audio and transcript will be archived on the Company’s website following the call.
About Surmodics, Inc.
Surmodics is the global leader in surface modification technologies for intravascular medical devices and a leading provider of chemical components for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) immunoassay tests and microarrays. Surmodics is pursuing highly differentiated whole-product solutions that are designed to address unmet clinical needs for its medical device customers and engineered to the most demanding requirements. This key growth strategy leverages the combination of the Company’s expertise in proprietary surface technologies, along with enhanced device design, development and manufacturing capabilities. The Company mission remains to improve the detection and treatment of disease. Surmodics is headquartered in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. For more information, visit www.surmodics.com . The content of Surmodics’ website is not part of this press release or part of any filings that the company makes with the SEC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005358/en/
Surmodics, Inc.
Andy LaFrence, 952-500-7000
ir@surmodics.com
Source: Surmodics, Inc.