PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Pall Corporation, a global leader in filtration, separation and purification, has a newly named business unit within the Pall Life Sciences division. The Pall Biotech business unit has been named to reflect an important strategic direction for the company. The update will not impact current or prospective company operations.
"As the lines between the biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors continue to merge, our commitment is stronger than ever to develop and deliver end-to-end capabilities with cutting-edge technologies and services. The name Pall Biotech reflects a more focused approach to serving these high-growth market segments," said Mario Philips, Vice President & General Manager of Pall Biotech. "It also reflects our dedication to reducing costs, while increasing efficiency and quality, for today's developer of sensitive biologic products, including mAbs, recombinant proteins, viral vaccines, and cell and gene therapies."
Critical partnerships in the industry and alignment with regulatory agencies will play a key role in improving both the integrated and stand-alone elements of the Pall Biotech total bioprocessing solutions portfolio.
"Pall Biotech does not make drugs—we enable drug manufacturers with rapid transition from pre-clinical to commercial manufacturing," explained Martin Smith, Chief Technology Officer of Pall Corporation. "In 2018, our Pall Life Sciences division boasts the most complete solutions from drug discovery through delivery with Pall Laboratory for research and discovery, Pall Biotech enabling next-generation manufacturing processes, and Pall Medical for patient delivery."
The Pall Biotech portfolio of standard configurable single-use, stainless steel and hybrid technologies for fed-batch and continuous processes across upstream, downstream and formulation and filling applications enables customers to accelerate time to market by selecting cost effective, robust and reliable integrated solutions. Each customer is fully supported by Pall Biotech experts at both a local and global level.
To learn more about the new Pall Biotech, please visit www.pall.com/biotech . Or to start a conversation with our team and learn how we can support your process success, email: biotech@pall.com .
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical fluid management needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The company's engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation serves customers worldwide.
For more information visit www.pall.com .
Or follow us on social media: Google+ - YouTube - LinkedIn - Twitter - Facebook
Corporate Media Contact
Pall Corporation
Mariann Kourafas
Director of Communications
+1-508-871-5469
Media Contact
White Matter Communications
Beth Willers
bethw@whitemattercomm.com
+1-415-905-0324
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/newly-named-pall-biotech-business-unit-focuses-on-flexible-scalable-end-to-end-drug-manufacturing-models-for-all-development-processes-300589329.html
SOURCE Pall Corporation