SAN MATEO, Calif., Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Aryaka® , the leading global SD-WAN provider, announced today that Greg Orr has joined the company’s leadership team as Vice President of Sales for the Americas. In his new role, Orr will further scale Aryaka’s sales organization and expand its market footprint throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Latin America.
“CIOs, heads of global infrastructure, and enterprise architects want to streamline IT infrastructure, deliver applications faster and more consistently to global end-users, and bring down costs,” said Orr. “Aryaka’s global SD-WAN solution delivers up to 40 times faster application performance to enterprise branch and remote users, while reducing their costs by up to 70 percent, and aiding their IT consolidation and cloud migration strategies. I’m thrilled to join Aryaka at a time when the company is aggressively marching towards an initial public offering (IPO).”
“Greg has a natural ability to build world-class teams with a customer-first mindset and vast experience selling to IT executives at Fortune Global 2000 companies,” said Shawn Farshchi, President and CEO of Aryaka. “His knowledge of the networking, security, data center, and software-defined infrastructure markets will bring tremendous value to Aryaka and our customers.”
Orr has more than 20 years of sales leadership experience in the networking, security, data center, and software-defined infrastructure industries. Most recently, he served as Vice President of Sales for Americas at SDN startup Big Switch Networks, where he grew bookings for the company’s Americas region by 130% year over year (YoY) and doubled its field sales organization.
Prior to joining Big Switch Networks, Orr held Vice President of Sales positions at Arkin and Gigamon. At Arkin, Orr instituted a new sales process, methodology, and culture while doubling the field sales team prior to its acquisition by VMware in 2016. At Gigamon, Orr led all enterprise and state, local, and education (SLED) revenue across 26 central and western states. During this time, his teams exceeded their revenue quota for five consecutive years. In 2015, under Orr’s leadership, his team closed $90 million in sales, which totalled more than 40 percent of Gigamon's global revenue that year, and was a key part of the company’s IPO in 2013.
In the past, Orr also held sales leadership positions at CA Technologies and Radware.
Deployed by more than 800 global enterprises, Aryaka is the leading global SD-WAN provider and has the fastest growing SD-WAN solution in the market today, delivering enhanced performance for cloud and on-premises applications worldwide. Aryaka’s global SD-WAN has quickly become the only viable MPLS replacement solution for global enterprises requiring alternatives to legacy WAN infrastructures for mission-critical application delivery.
For information about Aryaka, visit www.aryaka.com .
About Aryaka
Aryaka is transforming how global enterprises connect sites and users worldwide, and use mission-critical applications to support modern business execution demands. Aryaka’s Global SD-WAN combines a purpose-built private network, SD-WAN, optimization and acceleration techniques, connectivity to cloud platforms, and network visibility in a single solution that is delivered as a service.
To learn more, visit www.aryaka.com . Follow us on Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and LinkedIn .
Aryaka Media Contact
Shehzad Karkhanawala
Director of Marketing
Aryaka
408-273-8420
pr@aryaka.com
Source: Aryaka