Company Is Ranked No. 2 In Its Industry Group
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Fortune Magazine has named Monsanto Company to its 2018 World’s Most Admired Companies List for the fifth consecutive year. Monsanto is ranked No. 2 within the company’s industry sector.
“We are honored to receive and celebrate this recognition, which acknowledges the work of our more than 20,000 passionate employees around the world,” said Hugh Grant, Monsanto Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “With each appearance on the list, we have continuously developed new agricultural tools and innovations that support our global commitment to address current and future challenges associated with food security, water scarcity and climate change.”
The Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies list is based on company surveys and peer ratings from 1,500 senior executives, directors and analysts. Survey participants provide ratings on a company’s innovativeness and quality of products, to the retention of talented people and their responsibility to the community and the environment. Monsanto and others named to the 2018 World’s Most Admired Companies list are featured online today and will appear in the magazine’s February print issue, which hits newsstands on Jan. 22.
Monsanto’s commitment to celebrate diverse ideas within a global, collaborative work environment has led other third-party organizations to recognize the company as an employer of choice. In recent months, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) named Monsanto as one of the Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality; Working Mother Magazine recognized Monsanto as one of its 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers, Glassdoor named Grant as one of its 2017 Highest Rated CEOs and Science Magazine honored Monsanto as one of the world’s top science employers. For more information on career opportunities at Monsanto, visit www.monsanto.com/careers .
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto is committed to bringing a broad range of solutions to help nourish our growing world. We produce seeds for fruits, vegetables and key crops – such as corn, soybeans, and cotton – that help farmers have better harvests while using water and other important resources more efficiently. We work to find sustainable solutions for soil health, help farmers use data to improve farming practices and conserve natural resources, and provide crop protection products to minimize damage from pests and disease. Through programs and partnerships, we collaborate with farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities and others to help tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges. To learn more about Monsanto, our commitments and our more than 20,000 dedicated employees, please visit monsanto.com . Follow our business on Twitter® at twitter.com/MonsantoCo .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005350/en/
Monsanto Company
Daphne J. Dorsey, 314-694-6544
Source: Monsanto Company