AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- E2open , the one place in the cloud to run your supply chain, today announced that it has acquired Channel Data Management (CDM) providers, Birch Worldwide and Entomo. These acquisitions further strengthen E2open’s CDM capabilities, providing organizations the most comprehensive platform in the market to improve sales channel performance.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005128/en/
E2open’s acquisitions of Birch Worldwide and Entomo further strengthen E2open’s CDM capabilities, providing organizations the most comprehensive platform in the market to improve sales channel performance. (Photo: Business Wire)
Birch Worldwide, a leading channel incentives solution provider, maximizes the effective use of market development fund (MDF), co-op and channel rebate programs for customers like Polycom, Symantec and Unify, an Atos company. With the addition of Birch’s deep market presence across Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa, E2open is uniquely positioned as a global and dominant player in Smart Incentives Management.
Entomo, a leader in channel revenue management, serves customers including Brother, Targus, Kingston Technology and Qorvo. Entomo adds more CDM capabilities to ingest CRM data, manage pricing, incentives, rebates, and commission splits. This enables companies to reduce channel conflict and easily manage sales performance plans.
With Birch Worldwide and Entomo’s solutions closely aligned to those from Zyme, companies will gain the ability to leverage decision-grade data to further optimize on capital deployed in the channel, deliver increasingly predictable ROI, and focus on channel performance optimization.
“E2open is committed to being the leader in channel data management and by adding Entomo and Birch, companies can further drive ROI of their channel programs,” said Michael Farlekas, CEO, E2open. “Combining our strong CDM capabilities with E2open’s extensive business network, supply chain management engines, and Harmony user experience, companies can better collaborate, plan and execute business processes across the complete value chain in a single place.”
About E2open
E2open is the one place, in the cloud, to run your supply chain, powered by the world’s largest direct business network and a broad portfolio of next generation solutions including Sourcing & Procurement, Quality & Traceability, Inventory Visibility & Optimization, Supply Planning & Response, Logistics & Fulfillment, S&OP/Financial Planning, Demand Planning & Sensing, Channel Data Management and Channel Performance Optimization. E2open enables the world’s largest and most complex supply chains to better plan, execute and collaborate. We understand supply chain. Bring us your challenges and E2open will deliver better outcomes. www.e2open.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005128/en/
E2open
Diane Mitchell, +1-512-735-5692
VP, Marketing
Diane.Mitchell@e2open.com
Source: E2open