HOUSTON, Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Spark Energy, Inc. (“Spark” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ:SPKE), an independent retail energy services company, announced the pricing of a public offering of 2,000,000 shares of its 8.75% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”) at a public offering price of $25.25.
The underwriters have been granted a 30-day option to purchase up to 250,000 additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock from Spark, exercisable in whole or in part, at the public offering price less the underwriting discount. The offering is scheduled to close on January 26, 2018.
Spark intends to use the net proceeds of approximately $48.7 million (or approximately $54.8 million if the underwriters exercise in full their option to purchase an additional 250,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock), after deducting underwriting discounts and an advisory fee, but before estimated offering expenses, for merger and acquisition opportunities, international expansion and general corporate purposes, including to repay a portion of borrowings outstanding under Spark’s senior secured borrowing base credit facility.
B. Riley FBR, Inc., Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, BB&T Capital Markets, a division of BB&T Securities, LLC, and Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc. acted as joint book-running managers of the offering. Boenning & Scattergood, Inc., Incapital LLC, National Securities Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of National Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:NHLD), and USCA Securities LLC acted as co-managers.
The offering may be made only by means of a prospectus and related prospectus supplement meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A copy of the prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus meeting such requirements relating to this offering may be obtained from any of the underwriters, including the offices of:
B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Attn: Syndicate Prospectus Department
1300 17 th Street N., Suite 1400
Arlington, VA 22209
Phone: (800) 846-5050
Email: prospectuses@brileyfbr.com Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Attn: Taxable Fixed Income Department
1717 Arch Street, 19 th Floor
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
Phone: (215) 665-6130
Email: TFI@janney.com BB&T Capital Markets
Attn: Prospectus Department
901 East Byrd Street, Suite 300
Richmond, VA 23219
Email: prospectusrequests@bbandtcm.com Ladenburg Thalmann & Co.
Attn: Syndicate Department
277 Park Avenue, 26th Floor
New York, NY 10172
Email: prospectus@ladenburg.com You may also obtain these documents for free when they are available by visiting the Securities and Exchange Commission's (“SEC”) Web site at www.sec.gov .
The shelf registration statement relating to these securities has previously been filed with the SEC and declared effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Spark Energy, Inc.
Spark Energy, Inc. is an established and growing independent retail energy services company founded in 1999 that provides residential and commercial customers in competitive markets across the United States with an alternative choice for their natural gas and electricity. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Spark currently operates in 19 states and serves 94 utility territories. Spark offers its customers a variety of product and service choices, including stable and predictable energy costs and green product alternatives.
Cautionary Note Concerning Forward Looking Statements
This press release includes regarding future events. These rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events and are subject to a number of uncertainties and factors, many of which are outside the control of Spark, and a variety of risks that could cause results to differ materially from those expected by the management of Spark. Spark undertakes no obligation to update or revise to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time.
Contact: Spark Energy, Inc.
Investors:
Christian Hettick, 832-200-3727
Media:
Eric Melchor, 281-833-4151
Source:Spark Energy, Inc.