CHICAGO, Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- McDonald Hopkins LLC today announced that Mazen Asbahi has joined the firm as a member in the Chicago office.
Asbahi has over 17 years of experience working with clients in healthcare and corporate law. His healthcare expertise includes counseling physicians, dentists and other providers on their regulatory and business matters. In addition to guiding physicians and other providers on their day-to-day business and compliance matters, Asbahi helps start-up and growth stage companies in the healthcare and technology sectors.
Asbahi's corporate law background encompasses serving as outside general counsel to fast-growing companies and representing entrepreneurs, investors, and executives in the areas of start-up, venture capital and private equity financings; mergers and acquisitions, corporate governance, and general commercial matters.
"We are excited about the addition of Mazen to the McDonald Hopkins team," said David A. Agay, managing member of the firm's Chicago office. "His healthcare and business law skills and experience will not only further enrich the talent in the Chicago office, but will serve our clients well. Asbahi's addition to the Chicago office allows McDonald Hopkins to bolster its strength in a key practice area in a market that is important to the firm's long-term plans."
"We are pleased to add an experienced healthcare attorney like Mazen to our national healthcare team," said Steven M. Harris, a Chicago member in the firm's Healthcare Practice Group. "He brings to McDonald Hopkins a wide spectrum of knowledge and capabilities that will assist our clients in the Chicago market and beyond with their healthcare and business needs."
With a strong commitment to serving the community, Mazen has served on a number of boards of directors and regularly counsels nonprofit boards and executives on governance, best practices, and day-to-day operational matters. Mazen is a Fellow of Leadership Greater Chicago, a premiere civic leadership development organization.
Mazen earned his J.D., with cum laude honors, from Northwestern University School of Law in 2000 and received a B.A. with high honors in Political Science and Middle Eastern Studies from the University of Michigan in 1996. He is currently attending Loyola University Law School to earn a LL.M. in Health Law
He can be reached at masbahi@mcdonaldhopkins.com or 312.642.4168.
About McDonald Hopkins
Founded in 1930, McDonald Hopkins is a business advisory and advocacy law firm with locations in Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Miami, and West Palm Beach. The firm's Chicago office opened in 2007 and is located in the 300 North LaSalle building on the Chicago River. For more information about McDonald Hopkins, visit mcdonaldhopkins.com .
CONTACT:
Deborah W. Kelm
McDonald Hopkins LLC
600 Superior Avenue, East, Suite 2100
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Phone: 216.348.5733
Email: dkelm@mcdonaldhopkins.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/experienced-healthcare-and-corporate-attorney-mazen-asbahi-joins-mcdonald-hopkins-300582560.html
SOURCE McDonald Hopkins