MAHTOMEDI, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Chuck & Don’s , a destination pet supplies store with excellent customer experience and a wide selection of products, is excited to announce its expansion into Kansas. The acquisition of All Paws Pet Center , which occurred Jan. 11, 2018, consists of three existing locations, which provide pet food, supplies and support to pets and their owners across the Wichita region.
Since its inception in 1990, Chuck & Don’s has continued to grow throughout the Midwest and beyond, boasting 30 Minnesota locations, 10 Colorado locations and one location in Wisconsin. With a desire to grow the business and offer an outstanding customer experience to new regions, Chuck & Don’s has acquired All Paws Pet Center which is a family owned business whose values and culture mirror its own. Similar to Chuck & Don’s, All Paws Pet Center provides the highest quality pet foods and supplies, and has a knowledgeable and caring staff that is dedicated to the wellbeing of their customer’s pets. Additionally, All Paws Pet Center takes pride in supporting local rescues and adoption agencies, which share Chuck & Don’s commitment to making a positive difference in the communities in which they operate.
Operating since 2006, All Paws Pet Center was founded by Paul and Tammy Baumann in Wichita, Kansas and has grown to three locations: All Paws Pet Center - West (1444 N. Maize, Wichita), All Paws Pet Center - East (2244 N. Greenwich Rd., Wichita), and All Paws Pet Center - Derby (1821 E. Madison, Derby). As part of the acquisition by Chuck & Don’s, employees of All Paws Pet Center will remain, including minority owners David and Pat Lebus. Company co-founder, Paul Baumann, will become a Board Member for Chuck & Don’s moving forward.
“Geographic expansion beyond our current locations in Minnesota, Colorado, and Wisconsin has been a strategy for the company,” said Bob Hartzell, CEO and President of Chuck & Don’s. “We’ve been looking for the right fit and I’m happy to say we’ve found that in All Paws Pet Center. Our companies have a similar history in that they were founded to meet the need for high quality pet products in their community, and found success when they paired it with friendly, knowledgeable service.”
“When we were looking to sell, we wanted to find the best company possible to continue our values and mission of offering quality pet foods in Wichita for every budget,” said Paul Baumann, Co-Founder of All Paws Pet Center. “We’re excited to be joining forces with a like minded company who provides a unique experience for pet owners in comparison to big box stores, and cares about the communities they serve. We’re confident that our customers and their pets will continue to experience the highest quality care with Chuck & Don’s.”
To learn more about Chuck & Don’s and the acquisition, visit www.chuckanddons.com .
About Chuck & Don’s
Founded by Charles “Chuck” Anderson and Don Tauer in 1990, Chuck & Don’s is the local destination pet supply store offering brand name, specialty and hard-to-find pet foods and supplies for dogs, cats, small animals, birds, reptiles and aquatic creatures. Chuck & Don’s is known for its outstanding customer service, highly knowledgeable staff and commitment to the communities it serves. Chuck & Don’s has 28 Minnesota, 10 Colorado locations and one location in Wisconsin. Chuck & Don’s was featured on the Inc. 5000 list of fastest-growing companies in 2016 and the Minneapolis/St. Paul Business Journal’s Fast 50 for the fastest-growing privately held companies in the Twin Cities in 2017. Additionally, the company has been named a top workplace by Minnesota Business and the Star Tribune. Shop online for all your favorite Chuck & Don’s products delivered to select locations. To learn more, visit www.chuckanddons.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005058/en/
For Chuck & Don's
Brittany Trangsrud, 612-333-1723
brittanyt@lolared.com
Source: Chuck & Don's