NEW YORK, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S. today announced a new white paper, "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Will Present Retirement, Benefits, Executive Compensation and Payroll Professionals with New Challenges in 2018", examining impacts of the tax bill recently signed into law by President Trump.
Authored by Wolters Kluwer experts John W. Strzelecki, J.D., Glenn Sulzer, J.D., and Tulay Turan, J.D., the white paper unpacks aspects of the new law that will affect a wide range of retirement, benefits and payroll professionals, including the elimination of individual mandate penalty, modification of personal income tax rates, revised standard deduction, and the repeal of Roth re-characterization.
"The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the most sweeping tax legislation in decades and will affect several areas of the law – from payroll and employee benefits, to pensions and executive compensation," said Glenn Sulzer, a senior analyst for the Corporate Compliance division of Wolters Kluwer and a co-author of the paper. "This white paper will help a wide range of professionals to fully understand these changes and how they will impact their clients."
Highlights of the paper include analyses of the following topics:
The impact on qualified plans of revised pass-through deductions, Deferral election for qualified equity grants, Modification of $1 million deduction limit on executive compensation, Limitations on employer deductions for fringe benefits, and Suspension of personal exemptions.
"As tax reform continues to develop under this administration, our team at Wolters Kluwer will continue to offer comprehensive information to keep our customers aware of potential impacts on their clients," said Chris Carr, Corporate Compliance Portfolio Director at Wolters Kluwer.
Download a complimentary electronic copy of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Will Present Retirement, Benefits, Executive Compensation and Payroll Professionals with New Challenges in 2018 .
Wolters Kluwer provides world-class content for pension, benefits, employment, and payroll professionals with the information and resources necessary to help them understand and work with new laws as they take effect. Other products relating to the new legislation, including the Pension Plan Guide, Employee Benefits Management, and the Payroll Management Guide, may be found at: wolterskluwerlr.com/store and on our highly intuitive Cheetah™ platform.
About Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S.
Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S. is part of Wolters Kluwer N.V. (AEX: WKL), a global leader in information services and solutions for professionals in the health, tax and accounting, risk and compliance, finance and legal sectors. We help our customers make critical decisions every day by providing expert solutions that combine deep domain knowledge with specialized technology and services.
Wolters Kluwer reported 2016 annual revenues of €4.3 billion. The company, headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, serves customers in over 180 countries, maintains operations in over 40 countries and employs 19,000 people worldwide.
For more information about Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S., visit www.WoltersKluwerLR.com , follow us on Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn .
Media
Linda Gharib
Director, Communications
Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S.
Tel: +1 (646) 887-7962
Email: linda.gharib@wolterskluwer.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-wolters-kluwer-white-paper-analyzes-impact-of-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-on-retirement-benefits-executive-compensation-and-payroll-300583986.html
SOURCE Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory U.S.