TOKYO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Canon Inc. and Canon Medical Systems Corporation today announced the official corporate name (trade name) change of Canon Group Company Toshiba Medical Systems Corporation to Canon Medical Systems Corporation (hereafter referred to as Canon Medical Systems).
Since joining the Canon Group in December 2016, Canon Medical Systems has been undertaking the procedures for obtaining regulatory approval for integration with the Canon Group and change of the company name under the relevant national or regional laws concerning pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Canon announced that such procedures have been completed, and that the change of the company name enters into effect today.
Since its establishment in 1930, Canon Medical Systems has introduced a number of "first-in-Japan" and "world's first" medical systems in cooperation with its customers worldwide. With its sales and service network, Canon Medical Systems conducts business globally, providing diagnostic imaging systems to around 140 countries and regions.
Canon Inc. first entered the medical equipment business in 1940 with the development of the first domestically produced indirect X-ray camera, and utilizing its advanced imaging technologies, currently produces equipment such as digital X-ray imaging systems and OCT ophthalmic devices. Since its founding, the Company has maintained a strong commitment to the medical equipment business, and will further strengthen the business with the aim of contributing to a safe and secure society.
Through its integration with the Canon Group, Canon Medical Systems—in the spirit of the Canon Group corporate philosophy of “kyosei” and its own management slogan of “Made for Life” (Made for Partnerships, Made for Patients, Made for You.)—will continue to expand in order to accelerate the growth of the Canon Group’s medical equipment business and contribute to better healthcare throughout the world.
Canon Medical Systems USA
Toshiba America Medical Systems, a Canon Group Company, also announced today the official introduction of a new company name – Canon Medical Systems USA, Inc. With the new name, Canon Medical Systems remains committed to delivering life-improving technologies and its “Made for Life” philosophy, which is a long-standing commitment to improve the lives of patients, clinicians and administrators. Canon Medical Systems USA, Inc., headquartered in Tustin, California, markets, sells, distributes and services radiology and cardiovascular systems, including CT, MR ultrasound, X-ray and interventional X-ray equipment. For more information visit Canon Medical Systems website at https://us.medical.canon .
About Canon Medical Systems Corporation
Canon Medical Systems Corporation develops and manufactures diagnostic imaging systems including CT, MRI, ultrasound, X-ray systems and clinical laboratory systems and provides them to around 140 countries and regions around the world, offering technology that provides faster diagnosis and early treatment. Under the slogan "Made for Life" (Made for Partnerships, Made for Patients, Made for You.), Canon Medical Systems is making positive contributions toward hospital management, and provides a range of patient-friendly healthcare systems and services, continuing its long tradition of contributing to healthcare.
Company Name: Canon Medical Systems Corporation
President and Chief Executive Officer: Toshio Takiguchi
Headquarters: 1385 Shimoishigami, Otawara-shi, Tochigi, Japan
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005823/en/
Canon Medical Systems Corporation
Karl Bruder
tel: 03-5482-8055
fax: 03-5482-5130
bruder.karl@canon.co.jp
or
David Kelly
tel: 03-5482-8058
fax: 03-5482-5130
kelly.david@canon.co.jp
Source: Canon Medical Systems Corporation