PLYMOUTH, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc., the investment adviser for the Ave Maria Mutual Funds, has announced two portfolio manager promotions effective January 1, 2018. For the Ave Maria Value Fund (Ticker: AVEMX), Chadd M. Garcia was named co-Portfolio Manager, joining Lead Portfolio Manager, Timothy S. Schwartz, CFA, and co-Portfolio Manager Joseph W. Skornicka, CFA. For the Ave Maria Bond Fund (Ticker: AVEFX), Adam P. Gaglio, CFA, was named co-Portfolio Manager, joining Lead Portfolio Manager Brandon S. Scheitler and co-Portfolio Manager Richard L. Platte, Jr., CFA.
George P. Schwartz, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, remarked, “Chadd and Adam have proven themselves as outstanding research analysts and we think they are well prepared for the challenge of being portfolio managers. They will add depth to the management of these two mutual funds.”
About Ave Maria Mutual Funds
Ave Maria Mutual Funds is the largest family of Catholic mutual funds in the U.S. with over $2 billion in assets. The five no-load funds invest in companies that do not violate core values and teachings of the Catholic Church. The largest of the funds is the $975 million Ave Maria Rising Dividend Fund (Ticker: AVEDX). For more information about Ave Maria Mutual Funds, please call 1-866-AVE-MARIA (866-283-6274) or visit http://avemariafunds.com .
About Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc.
Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc. is a Registered Investment Adviser. Founded in 1980, the Firm is headquartered in Plymouth, Michigan with a branch office in Ave Maria, Florida. In managing the Ave Maria Mutual Funds, investments are made only if companies meet the Funds’ financial and moral criteria. As such, returns may be lower or higher than if decisions were based solely on investment considerations. The Funds’ method of security selection may or may not be successful and the Funds may underperform or outperform the stock market as a whole. All mutual funds are subject to market risk, including possible loss of principal. For more information about Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc., please visit www.schwartzinvest.com .
Request a prospectus, which includes investment objectives, risks, fees, expenses and other information that you should read and consider carefully before investing. The prospectus can be obtained by calling 1-866-283-6274 or it can be viewed at www.avemariafunds.com .
Distributed by Ultimus Fund Distributors LLC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005025/en/
Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc.
Mike Richter
Director of Marketing
734-455-7777
mjr@schwartzinvest.com
Source: Schwartz Investment Counsel, Inc.