5 COMMENTS Italy, Europe’s most indebted large economy, is at the crossroads again. Growth has picked up finally , and the country’s bank cleanup is in progress . But the national election due in early March is putting Italy’s debt of close to 135% of gross domestic product under the global spotlight again. The irony is, the debt burden may finally be about to fall.
Super low and negative rates engineered by the European Central Bank and a brighter outlook have created the conditions for Europe to heal. This includes Italy. The country’s credit rating even received a rare upgrade from Standard & Poor’s last year, to triple-B.
The Colosseum in Rome. Photo: filippo monteforte/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images Italy’s problem of late hasn’t been overborrowing, but nonexistent growth. The country has run a primary surplus in nearly every year since the early 1990s, notes Oxford Economics, meaning it hasn’t been meaningfully adding to its debt load. But recent surpluses have fallen short of target, while stagnant growth and low inflation have held back the nominal GDP denominator: Italy’s debt burden has remained as heavy as ever.
With Italian growth picking up in 2017 to 1.5% on the European Commission’s forecast, the debt level has stabilized and appears to be about to fall. The International Monetary Fund thinks it could reach 126% of GDP by 2020.
The ECB’s aggressive easing has also bought Italy time and space. In the past three years the yield of newly issued Italian government securities has averaged just 0.64%, according to data from the Italian Treasury. Italian two-year yields are below zero. And the country has taken advantage of bond-market conditions to raise the average maturity of debt to close to seven years.
That means investors shouldn’t take fright if Italian bonds prove volatile in the coming months. The 10-year Italian yield spread versus Germany has risen to 1.6 percentage points from a December low of 1.3 points, but that is not an unusual move: in the run-up to the French elections in 2017, which raised fears of an anti-euro government in Paris, Italy’s spread over Germany topped two points.
The risk is that the election represents either further gridlock or a squandered opportunity. The IMF warns that a higher primary surplus—north of 3% of GDP—is still needed to put debt on a clear downward path; higher growth would help too. That will require political will. But the current consensus is that fractured Italian politics, with voters split between Silvio Berlusconi’s center-right- coalition, the center-left Democratic Party and the Five Star antiestablishment party, may not deliver a coherent government.
Italy’s debt problem is chronic rather than acute: The ECB and current economic conditions offer an opportunity to address it. But it is far from clear that politics will allow Italy to take it.
Write to Richard Barley at richard.barley@wsj.com