White House Trump Took Credit for the 'Lowest Rate Ever Recorded' of African-American Unemployment. The Reality Is More Complex U.S. President Donald J. Trump delivers the State of the Union address in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives January 30, 2018 in Washington, D.C. Mark Wilson Getty Images By Alana Abramson 11:23 PM EST 
President Donald Trump once again touted a record-low unemployment rate among African Americans in his State of the Union Tuesday, crediting his administration’s policies for the improvement. 
“African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded, and Hispanic-American unemployment has also reached the lowest levels in history,” Trump said at the top of his speech, while listing the accomplishments of his administration. 
Numerically, the President’s claims are true. Unemployment among African Americans in December of 2017 was 6.8 percent, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). This is the lowest number since 1972, the earliest date for which the BLS provides data. But attributing the drop to Trump’s policies is more complicated. The unemployment rate has been steadily declining among African Americans since March 2010, when 16.8 percent of African Americans were unemployed. By the time Trump entered office, in January of 2017, the unemployment rate had already decreased 9 points. While he was in office, it decreased by one point — keeping up a trend that had already been in place. 
It’s a similar situation with the Hispanic unemployment rate, which was also at a record low of 4.9 percent in December of 2017, according to BLS statistics. That number has also been declining steadily since March 2010, when it was 12.9 percent. Like the African-American unemployment rate, it only declined one point during the year Trump has been in office. 
Moreover, both the African-American and Hispanic unemployment rates are still higher than the overall U.S. unemployment rate, which was 4.1 percent in December of 2017. 
Trump’s sentiments touting low African-American unemployment are not new. Most recently, after the rapper Jay-Z said the low unemployment rate doesn’t compensate for Trump’s treatment of African Americans, Trump tweeted , “somebody please inform Jay-Z that because of my policies, Black Unemployment has just been reported to be at the LOWEST RATE EVER RECORDED!” 
During his campaign, Trump made headlines when he offered African-Americans a novel argument for why they should vote for him. “What do you have to lose by trying something new like Trump?” he said at the time . “You’re living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed — what the hell do you have to lose?” 
That time, though, Trump was wrong about the statistics. The African-American youth unemployment rate at the time, according to Politifact , was actually about half of that — 27.1 percent. SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 