NASHVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- John Byers joins Lockton – the world's largest privately held insurance broker – as a Vice President and Producer in Nashville, Tennessee. Byers has more than 15 years of experience in employee benefits, risk management and retirement plans, most recently as Resident Sales Director and Vice President at Aon Risk Solutions.
"Clients agree that John is a great advisor who is always looking for ways to save them valuable time and capital while also protecting employees," said Peter Caine, chief operating officer of Lockton St. Louis, who also oversees the Nashville and Memphis businesses. "He thinks outside the box, which will be beneficial to both clients and Lockton as we grow the business."
While at Aon, Byers supported new business growth by working with his team to bring new resources to clients in the Nashville area. He supported client retention through appropriate resource allocation and through his employee benefits expertise. Clients turned to Byers to help them navigate the turbulent waters of health care reform to save on costs while providing benefits to employees.
"We are thrilled to have someone of John's professional caliber join Lockton," said Kevin McDaniel, chief executive officer of Lockton St. Louis. "He is very talented and a great person as well."
He began his career with Aflac, as he pursued his degree from the University of Georgia. Byers moved his way up the ranks to become District Sales Coordinator. In 2004, the organization produced $423,000 in revenue and by 2012 the organization produced $4.5 million. Byers helped build, develop, and lead the team that would be responsible for the 940 percent increase.
He graduated with a bachelor's in marketing from the University of Georgia, Terry College of Business. Byers will be based out of our Nashville office which is located at One Burton Hills Blvd., Suite 200, Nashville, TN 37215 and can be reached by calling 629-999-4100.
About Lockton
Lockton is a global professional services firm with 6,500 Associates who advise clients on protecting their people, property and reputations. Lockton has grown to become the world's largest privately held, independent insurance broker by helping clients achieve their business objectives.
For nine consecutive years, Business Insurance magazine has recognized Lockton as a " Best Place to Work in Insurance ." To see the latest insights from Lockton's experts, check Lockton Market Update .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lockton-adds-employee-benefits-and-risk-management-expertise-in-nashville-300580890.html
SOURCE Lockton