NORCROSS, Ga., Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Immucor, Inc., a global leader in transfusion and transplantation diagnostics and a portfolio company of global alternative asset firm TPG, today announced the appointment of Avi Pelossof as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Pelossof succeeds CEO Jeffrey R. Binder (“Jeff”), who retains his role as Chairman of the Immucor Board of Directors.
“Immucor has a capable, dynamic team that strives every day to meet the needs of our customers and their patients. It is exciting to welcome Avi as our new CEO, a seasoned healthcare executive with a proven track record,” said Binder. “I look forward to working with him in my role as Chairman of the Board to capitalize on the many opportunities ahead of us.”
Pelossof joins Immucor from Alere Inc., where he was most recently Global President for the Infectious Disease business, a $750 million unit focused on point-of-care infectious disease diagnostic tests.
“Immucor is an established diagnostics leader with a strong track record of innovative products that meet the needs of transfusion and transplant customers worldwide,” said Pelossof. “I am honored to join the company at this time of great potential and look forward working with the talented team at Immucor to deliver results.”
“Over the last number of years, Immucor has pursued significant growth, bringing new products to market and implementing a number of initiatives to further its global presence,” said Todd Sisitsky, Managing Partner of TPG Capital. “As we continue on this path, we are pleased to welcome Avi to the team. With more than 20 years of experience in the diagnostic space, he is the right leader to take Immucor forward.”
Sisitsky added, “As Chairman, Jeff will continue to lend his experience and expertise to Avi and the Immucor management team.
Pelossof held a variety of positions while at Alere, including Vice President, Infectious Disease Strategic Business Unit and Vice President, Blood Borne Pathogens. Prior to Alere, Pelossof served as Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Business Development for Chembio Diagnostics Systems, Inc., a developer, manufacturer and distributor of point-of-care diagnostic tests. He also held various positions focused on Latin America at Citibank, N.A./Citigroup and founded the consulting firm The IMS Group, Inc., focused on strategic market development for companies seeking to expand into Latin America. Pelossof has a BA in Economics from the University of Michigan and an MBA in Finance and International Business from New York University.
About Immucor
Founded in 1982, Immucor is a global leader in transfusion and transplantation diagnostics that facilitate patient-donor compatibility. Our mission is to ensure that patients in need of blood, organs or stem cells get the right match that is safe, accessible and affordable. With the right match, we can transform a life together. For more information on Immucor, please visit our website at www.immucor.com .
About TPG
TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992 with over $74 billion of assets under management and offices in San Francisco, Fort Worth, Austin, Dallas, Houston, New York, Beijing, Hong Kong, London, Luxembourg, Melbourne, Moscow, Mumbai, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. TPG has extensive experience with global public and private investments executed through leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, spinouts, growth investments, joint ventures and restructurings. The firm has a strong history of healthcare investing and its well-known investments include Adare Pharmaceuticals, Aptalis, Biomet, EnvisionRX, Fenwal, Healthscope, IASIS Healthcare, IMS Health, Par Pharmaceutical, Quintiles Transnational and Surgical Care Affiliates, among others. For more information visit www.tpg.com .
CONTACT: Michele Howard
770.441.2051
Source:Immucor, Inc.