NEW YORK, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- St. Claire Consultants is pleased to announce that it arranged the debt financing and assisted with the due diligence of Wentworth Management Services LLC's acquisition of Albany-based Purshe Kaplan Sterling Investments, an independent broker-dealer with 485 offices in 50 states.
Dail St. Claire , Founder, St. Claire Consultants & Advisory Director, Park Avenue Finance, New York, states: "The private debt market historically provides capital to businesses generally not served by banks, thereby fueling jobs and local economies." Ms. St. Claire adds, "Tax reform will have a significant impact on the evolution of the private debt markets. The limitation on the deductibility of interest expense is going to drive financial innovation around different types of lending."
Monroe Capital LLC acted as sole lead arranger and administrative agent on the funding of a $43.5-million senior credit facility to support the acquisition. Says Theodore Koenig , President and CEO of Monroe Capital, "Dail has always been insightful regarding private capital financing and she anticipates clients' needs. We are delighted to have collaborated with her on this transaction. We are also excited to include this wealth management business in Monroe's portfolio and be part of the solution for retail investors."
About St. Claire Consultants
Founded in 2013, St. Claire Consultants focuses on: 1) consulting to lower/middle and middle market businesses, institutional investors, foundations and family offices on financing and investment solutions; 2) assisting early stage alternative management and investment banking firms achieve strategic objectives.
About Dail St. Claire
In addition to founding St. Claire Consultants, Dail St. Claire is a 30-year finance industry veteran who also serves as Advisory Director of Park Avenue Finance, an investment banking firm that seeks to generate compelling risk-adjusted investment returns by creating, managing and investing through proprietary financial products. A long-standing Board member of both public and non-profit organizations, currently Ms. St. Claire serves as a Director and Chair of the Finance Committee of the Episcopal Church Foundation. She is a graduate of UC San Diego for her Bachelor's degree, and the University of Chicago for her Master's degree in Public Policy and Business.
About Monroe Capital
Monroe Capital LLC ("Monroe") is a private credit asset management firm specializing in direct lending and special situations investing. Since 2004, the firm has provided private credit solutions to borrowers in the U.S. and Canada. Monroe's middle market lending platform provides senior and junior debt financing to businesses, special situation borrowers and private equity sponsors. Investment types include unitranche financings; cash flow, asset based and enterprise value based loans; and equity co-investments. Monroe is committed to being a value-added and user-friendly partner to business owners, senior management and private equity sponsors. The firm is headquartered in Chicago and maintains offices in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco. Monroe has been recognized by Global M&A Network as the 2017 Small Middle Markets Lender of the Year; Private Debt Investor as the 2016 Lower Mid-Market Lender of the Year; M&A Advisor as the 2016 Lender Firm of the Year; and the U.S. Small Business Administration as the 2015 Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) of the Year. For more information, please visit monroecap.com .
Media Contact: For further information, please contact Temin and Company at 212-588-8788 or news@teminandco.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/st-claire-consultants-arranges-debt-financing-for-wentworth-management-services-acquisition-of-200-billion-aua-purshe-kaplan-300581553.html
SOURCE St. Claire Consultants