NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Harvest Partners, LP (“Harvest” or “the Firm”) is pleased to announce it has named five new partners effective January 8, 2018. The new partners were formerly Managing Directors and include Stephen Carlson, Paige Daly, Uzair Dossani, Nick Romano and Marc Unger.
Mr. Carlson joined Harvest in 2010 and has focused on investments in the business services and industrial distribution sectors. He serves on the boards of FCX Performance Inc., Material Handling Services LLC, and VetCor. He previously served on the boards of DTI, Packers Holdings and TruckPro.
Ms. Daly joined Harvest in 2010 and has focused on investments in the healthcare services industry. She serves on the boards of Advanced Dermatology and Cosmetic Surgery, Dental Care Alliance and EyeCare Services Partners. She previously served on the boards of Athletico and Cycle Gear.
Mr. Dossani joined Harvest in 2016 and has focused on investments in the industrial services, chemicals, packaging, transportation and logistics, and distribution industries. He serves on the board of TruckPro.
Mr. Romano joined Harvest in 2015 and has focused on investments in the manufacturing and consumer sectors. He serves on the board of APC Automotive Technologies.
Mr. Unger joined Harvest in 2015 and is the firm’s Chief Financial Officer. Before coming to Harvest he was CFO at CCMP.
Of the new appointments, Thomas Arenz, partner of Harvest, said, “We are pleased to recognize these five professionals and welcome them as our partners. Their contributions span the entirety of our investment program and we have confidence in their ability to continue to play meaningful roles in the growth of Harvest Partners.”
About Harvest Partners
Founded in 1981, Harvest Partners ( www.harvestpartners.com ) is a leading New York-based private equity investment firm pursuing management buyouts and recapitalizations of middle market companies in North America. Harvest focuses on acquiring profitable companies in the business services and consumer, healthcare services, industrial services, and manufacturing and distribution sectors. This strategy leverages Harvest Partners’ more than 35 years of experience in financing organic and acquisition-oriented growth companies.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005663/en/
Owen Blicksilver Public Relations, Inc.
Caroline Luz, 203-656-2829
Caroline@blicksilverpr.com
Source: Harvest Partners, LP