CHICAGO, Jan. 3, 2018 / PRNewswire/ -- Totten Insurance Group Inc. ( Totten ), a leading national insurance managing general agency, announced today that it has acquired the shares of Belyer Insurance Limited operating as EasyInsure (EasyInsure). Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
Headquartered in Windsor, Ontario, EasyInsure is Canada's first and leading digital insurance brokerage. The company expanded beyond its progressive personal insurance platform to also offer a full suite of commercial insurance products online. It now ranks as one of Canada's fastest growing insurance brokerages. Totten intends to leverage EasyInsure's digital capabilities to better support its current and future clients.
"EasyInsure's rapid growth is a testament to both its knowledgeable professionals and distribution platform as well as Canada's appetite for web-based insurance transactions," said Susan Murphy, President of Totten. "We're eager to utilize EasyInsure's online processes to increase our operational efficiencies in distribution and, more importantly, ensure we continue to deliver customized solutions to our customers when and how they want them."
EasyInsure founders and Managing Partners, Grant Belanger and Leen Meyer, will join Totten and continue to manage the EasyInsure operations, while reporting to Murphy.
"Joining Totten allows us to leverage the expert underwriting resources together with a national platform," said Belanger. "Our clients and prospects will continue to receive customized guidance and best-in-class service as well as a more robust suite of insurance solutions and capabilities."
Meyer added, "Like Totten, EasyInsure is focused on innovation, which is why we're so excited to join the agency whose brand is synonymous with future-forward products and services to meet the needs of customers."
About Totten
Totten Insurance Group is a leading Canadian MGA with the expertise to handle challenging accounts, as well as specialty risks. With offices across Canada, Totten supports the broker community in key segments, including Commercial Property, Commercial Casualty, Healthcare, Hospitality, Construction, Forestry, Mining, and Professional Liability and Personal Lines. Totten also operates under the name of National Broker Services (NBS) and Canadian Resources Insurance Solutions (CRIS). Visit www.tottengroup.com
CONTACT:
Media: Marni Gordon
Phone: 312-279-4601
Marni.gordon@hubinternational.com
M&A: Clark Wormer
Phone: 312.279.4848
Clark.wormer@hubinternational.com
 releases/totten-acquires-the-shares-of-ontario-based-easyinsure-300575393.html
SOURCE Totten Insurance Group