LEXINGTON, Ky., Valvoline Inc. (NYSE: VVV), a leading worldwide supplier of premium branded lubricants and automotive services, today announced that Brad Patrick will join the company on Jan. 22 as its chief people and communications officer. He will report to Valvoline™ Chief Executive Officer Sam Mitchell and be based at the company's world headquarters in Lexington, Kentucky.
In this role, Patrick will be responsible for the strategic direction and global management of all aspects of human resources, including talent development management, compensation and benefits, and labor and employee relations. He will also oversee corporate communications.
Patrick brings more than 30 years of strategic leadership in progressive HR practices, enhancing both people and organization capability and building performance cultures in high-growth environments. He has held senior HR leadership roles at the Sara Lee Corp., The Gillette Co. (Procter & Gamble Co.), Delta Air Lines Inc. and Frito-Lay Inc. Most recently, he was chief HR officer at Tempur Sealy International and Shearer's Snacks.
"Brad is a seasoned executive with a proven track record helping growth-oriented global organizations — and their people — succeed," Mitchell said. "We are extremely pleased to welcome him to Valvoline's leadership team."
Patrick holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from the University of Kentucky, where he is also an MBA advisory board member of the Gatton College of Business and Economics.
About Valvoline™
Valvoline Inc. (NYSE:VVV) is a leading worldwide producer and distributor of premium branded automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants, and automotive chemicals. Valvoline ranks as the #2 quick-lube chain by number of stores and #3 passenger car motor oil brand in the DIY market by volume in the United States. The brand operates and franchises more than 1,070 Valvoline Instant Oil Change SM centers in the United States. It also markets Valvoline™ lubricants and automotive chemicals; MaxLife™ lubricants created for higher-mileage engines; SynPower™ synthetic motor oil; and Zerex™ antifreeze. Visit www.valvoline.com to learn more.
™ Trademark, Valvoline or its subsidiaries, registered in various countries
SM Service mark, Valvoline or its subsidiaries, registered in various countries
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
Investor Relations
Sean T. Cornett
+1 (859) 357-2798
scornett@valvoline.com
Media Relations
Valerie Schirmer
+1 (859) 357-3235
vschirmer@valvoline.com
 with multimedia: releases/brad-patrick-to-join-valvoline-as-chief-people-and-communications-officer-300579307.html
SOURCE Valvoline Inc.