Leader in Unified Communications Market Hires Proven Innovator to Lead Development of Company’s Next-Gen Products
SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today, Polycom, Inc. announced that Donald A. Williams, former Prysm Engineering Leader, has been named Executive Vice President of Worldwide Engineering. Williams will lead the development of the company’s next-generation video, audio and content sharing solutions.
Williams is a seasoned software industry veteran with more than 25 years of experience in leading global R&D teams. He currently advises Silicon Valley startups and most recently served as Vice President and Head of Engineering for San Jose based Prysm, a software company focused on next generation digital workspaces and content sharing solutions. Williams also held R&D leadership roles at Skype, Cisco, Autonometry, and OfficeToGo.
“Don’s experience and leadership joins Polycom at a critical time as we create the next-generation experiences for companies that enable human-to-human connections which are critical to productivity and our economy,” said Mary McDowell, Polycom CEO. “Don brings considerable experience in managing diverse globally distributed teams and a focus on execution that will be critical in how we address the incredible growth opportunities in the UC industry with our growing development team in the U.S., China and India.”
“The UC industry is in the midst of an incredible transformation and Polycom has a track record of leading with innovation,” said Williams. “The opportunities for growth and to create products that will drive the way people communicate in business and beyond are some of the most exciting opportunities in tech right now and I am thrilled to be a part of it.”
Williams will be based at Polycom’s R&D office in Austin, Texas, and lead Polycom’s growing global Engineering team located in China, India and North America.
About Polycom
Polycom helps organizations unleash the power of human collaboration. More than 400,000 companies and institutions worldwide defy distance with secure video, voice and content solutions from Polycom to increase productivity, speed time to market, provide better customer service, expand education and save lives. Polycom and its global partner ecosystem provide flexible collaboration solutions for any environment that deliver the best user experience, the broadest multi-vendor interoperability and unmatched investment protection. Visit www.polycom.com or connect with us on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to learn more.
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005191/en/
Polycom, Inc.
Jim Cullinan, 206-724-4588
jim.cullinan@polycom.com
Source: Polycom, Inc.