LAS VEGAS, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Allegiant Travel Company (NASDAQ: ALGT) has scheduled its fourth quarter and full year 2017 financial results conference call for Wednesday, January 31 at 4:30 p.m. EST. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available through the company's Investor Relations website at http://ir.allegiantair.com . The webcast will also be archived on the "Events & Presentations" section of the site.
When:
Wednesday, January 31, 2018 at 4:30 p.m. EST
Who:
Maurice J. Gallagher Jr., chairman and chief executive officer
John Redmond, president
Scott Sheldon, executive vice president, chief operating officer and chief financial officer
How:
Web address: http://ir.allegiantair.com
Allegiant ®
Las Vegas-based Allegiant (NASDAQ: ALGT) is focused on linking travelers in small cities to world-class leisure destinations. The airline offers industry-low fares on an all-jet fleet while also offering other travel-related products such as hotel rooms and rental cars. All can be purchased only through the company website, Allegiant.com . Beginning with one aircraft and one route in 1999, the company has grown to more than 85 aircraft and 350 routes across the country with base airfares less than half the cost of the average domestic roundtrip ticket. For downloadable press kit, including photos, visit: http://gofly.us/iiFa303wrtF .
Note: This news release was accurate at the date of issuance. However, information contained in the release may have changed. If you plan to use the information contained herein for any purpose, verification of its continued accuracy is your responsibility.
For further information please visit the company's investor website: http://ir.allegiantair.com
Reference to the Company's website above does not constitute incorporation of any of the information thereon into this news release.
Media Inquiries: mediarelations@allegiantair.com
Investor Inquiries: Christopher Allen: ir@allegiantair.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/allegiant-travel-company-schedules-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-earnings-call-300577221.html
SOURCE Allegiant Travel Company