LOS ANGELES, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Tiger Group , a provider of asset valuation, advisory and disposition services, today announced that Chad Farrell has joined the firm's Commercial & Industrial Division as Managing Director. Farrell brings to Tiger deep experience in the disposition, valuation and auction of machinery, equipment, inventory, and real property. He also offers significant experience in the creation of marketing and e-commerce solutions within the context of commercial and industrial asset management.
From his base in Houston, Texas, Farrell will be responsible for managing the division's day-to-day operations. He will also work to advance the division's strategic direction and growth, develop new market initiatives, and secure engagements. The day-to-day operations were previously directed by Jeff Tanenbaum, now a Tiger Executive Managing Director. Tanenbaum will continue to focus on deal generation, strategic partnerships, and advising on complex transactions.
"Having worked closely with Chad over the past two years on a number of joint venture deals, we are thrilled to have him come on board as leader of our Commercial & Industrial Division," said Tanenbaum. "During his career, Chad has executed thousands of auction, sealed-bid and private treaty transactions in more than 20 countries, selling more than $750 million of surplus and distressed assets in the energy, transportation, construction, manufacturing, mining, metals and retail sectors. That track record, coupled with his experience in the development of e-commerce platforms for industrial asset sales, made him an ideal candidate for this leadership role in Tiger's fast-growing division."
Farrell comes to Tiger Group from Liquidity Services, a global provider of consultative asset management, valuation and sales solutions. Liquidity Services regularly conducts joint ventures with Tiger on surplus and distressed asset sales in energy and other industrial sectors. Farrell joined Liquidity Services in 2013 as Vice President, Strategic Business Development, when the company he founded, Tru-Markets-- a venture delivering eCommerce solutions for Fortune 1000 Energy and Insurance companies--merged with Liquidity Services.
Prior to founding Tru-Markets, Farrell's professional experience included decades of industry positions, including his role as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, at online auction marketplace Asset Nation Inc.
A resident of Houston, Farrell earned an M.B.A. from The University of Texas at Austin and a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from Texas A&M University.
Media Contact : At Parness & Associates Public Relations, (732) 290-0121, Bill Parness, 189707@email4pr.com , or Mobile: 732-673-6852, or Lisa Kreda, 189707@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/chad-farrell-joins-tiger-groups-commercial--industrial-division-as-managing-director-300591047.html
SOURCE Tiger Group