MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ECMC Group, a nonprofit corporation with a mission to help students succeed, today announced the appointment of Diana J. Ingram to its Board of Directors.
A technology leader with proven success in her field, Ingram has led and managed teams at prominent technology firms on a global scale. Currently leading technology consulting and business development at Oracle Consulting in Los Angeles, she spent many years at IBM with positions in global technology services, communications, and security, privacy and digital content management. Ingram also worked as the head of operations for IBT/Realtime.
"Diana's cross-functional strategic focus and background in technology will be extremely valuable to the Board of Directors and our management team as we pursue our mission," said John DePodesta, ECMC Group chairman of the Board. "As a forward-looking, growth-oriented organization, ECMC Group will benefit from Diana's strong leadership and the unique perspective and technological expertise she will bring to the Board, including her expertise in data and cyber security."
In addition to her corporate technology work, for the past 15 years, Ingram has generously given her time to a variety of organizations. Currently, Ingram is a board member for Goodwill of Southern California and the International Women's Forum, Southern California affiliate. She previously sat on the board of the Coalition for Clean Air, the Los Angeles Urban League and Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Los Angeles.
Ingram holds an MBA from Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management and a bachelor's degree in human biology from Stanford University.
About ECMC Group
ECMC Group is a nonprofit corporation with a mission to help students succeed. All companies in the ECMC Group family work together to fulfill this mission. ECMC Group and its affiliates invest heavily in programs promoting financial education, college access and college completion. ECMC Foundation, an ECMC Group affiliate, invests in improvements that affect educational outcomes—especially among underserved populations—through evidence-based innovation. ECMC Group affiliate Zenith Education Group is a U.S. nonprofit career education provider dedicated to promoting the long-term success of its students and graduates measured by program completion and job placement rates. Educational Credit Management Corporation (ECMC) is a nonprofit ECMC Group affiliate that provides support for the administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Program as a student loan guaranty agency. For more information, go to www.ecmcgroup.org .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ecmc-group-appoints-diana-j-ingram-to-board-of-directors-300576468.html
SOURCE ECMC Group