DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Integrity Marketing Group, LLC (“Integrity”), announced today that it has completed the acquisition of Insurance Marketing Group, LLC (“IMG”), a company focused on selling life and health insurance to the Senior Market. Financial terms of the private transaction were not disclosed.
Founded in 1991 and headquartered in Connecticut, Insurance Marketing Group works with agents in the Senior Market serving customers on the East Coast of the United States, and produced over $25 million of new life, health and long-term care premiums in 2017. The combined business will produce over $725 million in annualized premiums and expands Integrity’s national presence with a market-leading agency in the Northeast. All employees of Insurance Marketing Group will maintain their current roles with the company and will continue to operate under the Insurance Marketing Group brand.
“We have worked with Integrity for a long time and view this is an exciting opportunity for us to grow by gaining access to their carrier contracts, product diversity and industry-leading product development initiatives,” said Steven Bugg, President of Insurance Marketing Group. “Integrity also has the technology and marketing systems that will help IMG agents take their business to the next level,” added Bugg.
Insurance Marketing Group brings a wealth of regional expertise and a proven track record which is highlighted by their recent ability to successfully lobby for the approval of the first short-term care product in the history of the State of Connecticut.
“Steven has built an incredible business and we are excited to partner with him and the great team at IMG,” said Bryan W. Adams, Co-Founder & Managing Partner of Integrity. “This acquisition gives us a stronger regional footprint in the densely populated Northeast, and fits well into our strategic plan of growing nationally by better serving agents in their local markets.”
About Integrity Marketing Group
Integrity Marketing Group, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is the nation’s leading independent distributor of life and health insurance products focused on serving the Senior Market. Founded in 2006, Integrity develops and distributes life and health insurance products with insurance carrier partners and markets these products through its distribution network, which includes other large insurance agencies located throughout the country that have over 120,000 independent agents. Integrity serves nearly one million clients with almost 300 employees. In 2017, Integrity helped insurance carriers place over $725 million in new premium. More information is available at www.IntegrityMarketing.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005286/en/
Media:
Stanton
Gabriel Ross, 646-502-3576
GRoss@StantonPRM.com
Source: Integrity Marketing Group, LLC