NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- National law firm Seward & Kissel LLP is pleased to announce the promotion of Debra Franzese to partner, effective January 1, 2018.
“Debbie’s promotion is extremely well deserved, and we are thrilled to welcome her into the firm’s partnership,” noted Seward & Kissel Managing Partner Jim Cofer . “Time and time again, Debbie has proven her dedication not only to the success of our firm, but to the success of the investment management clients she serves. We are confident her leadership skills and unique perspectives will continue to progress in this new role.”
Debbie, who has spent her entire legal career at Seward & Kissel LLP, is a member of the firm’s Investment Management Group. She works with sponsors and managers of various private investment funds and other pooled investment vehicles, including hedge funds, private equity funds, funds of funds, commodity pools, co-investment vehicles, and various “hybrid” funds. In particular, she focuses on fund formation and structuring, the offering of interests by private investment funds, and the negotiation and documentation related to such investments.
She has significant experience advising clients regarding regulatory and compliance matters as well, including the availability of exemptions from registration for both U.S. and non-U.S. investment advisers, the development of compliance policies and procedures, the completion of regulatory filings, and assistance with regulatory examinations.
Debbie received a B.A. from Stockton University, summa cum laude, and her J.D. from American University, Washington College of Law, magna cum laude.
About Seward & Kissel LLP
Seward & Kissel LLP, founded in 1890, is a leading U.S. law firm with an international reputation for excellence. We have offices in New York City and Washington, D.C. Our practice primarily focuses on corporate, litigation and restructuring/bankruptcy work for clients seeking legal expertise in the financial services, corporate finance and capital markets areas. The firm is particularly well known for its representation of major commercial banks, investment banking firms, investment advisers and related investment funds (including mutual funds and hedge funds), master servicers, servicers, investors, distressed trade brokers, liquidity providers, hedge fund administrators, broker-dealers, institutional investors, and transportation companies (particularly in the shipping area).
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005429/en/
On behalf of Seward & Kissel LLP
Molly Doherty, 646.386.7675
mdoherty@baretzbrunelle.com
Source: Seward & Kissel LLP