DALLAS, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Capital Southwest Corporation (“Capital Southwest”) (Nasdaq:CSWC), a middle-market lending firm focused on supporting the acquisition and growth of middle market businesses, announced today that it has completed an investment in Capital Pawn Holdings, LLC (“Capital Pawn”), a portfolio company of The Capital Corporation (“Capital Corporation”). The investment is a first lien term loan utilized to refinance existing indebtedness. Capital Southwest serves as the sole administrative agent and lender on the credit facility.
"We are pleased to have the opportunity to partner with The Capital Corporation, and to support Capital Pawn’s continued growth,” said Josh Weinstein, Managing Director of Capital Southwest. “Capital Pawn is a leading pawn operator in the southeastern United States. Capital Pawn has built an impressive leadership position in its markets and is led by a strong management team. We also find attractive the full economic cycle performance of the pawn industry, which is counter cyclical in many respects.”
Capital Pawn provides loans for short-term cash needs to consumers in the southeastern United States and operates 18 pawn shops across Florida (12), Alabama (1), Mississippi (2) and Louisiana (3). Capital Pawn offers pawn loans, which are non-recourse loans collateralized by tangible personal property, such as jewelry, consumer electronics, power tools, sporting goods, musical instruments and other items; and sells merchandise, including collateral forfeited from pawn lending operations and used merchandise purchased from customers. It does not provide pay-day loans or loans secured by auto titles.
About Capital Southwest
Capital Southwest Corporation (Nasdaq:CSWC) is a Dallas, Texas-based, internally managed Business Development Company with approximately $293 million in net assets as of September 30, 2017. Capital Southwest is a middle-market lending firm focused on supporting the acquisition and growth of middle market businesses and makes investments ranging from $5 to $20 million in securities across the capital structure, including first lien, unitranche, second lien, subordinated debt and non-control equity co-investments. As a public company with a permanent capital base, Capital Southwest has the flexibility to be creative in its financing solutions and to invest to support the growth of its portfolio companies over long periods of time.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains historical information and forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the business and investments of Capital Southwest. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical statements and can often be identified by words such as "will," "believe," "expect" and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. These statements are based on management's current expectations, assumptions and beliefs. They are not guarantees of future results and are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. These risks include risks related to changes in the markets in which Capital Southwest invests, changes in the financial and lending markets, regulatory changes, tax treatment and general economic and business conditions.
Readers should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements and are encouraged to review Capital Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2017 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a more complete discussion of the risks and other factors that could affect any forward-looking statements. Except as required by the federal securities laws, Capital Southwest does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changing circumstances or any other reason after the date of this press release.
Investor Relations Contact:
Michael S. Sarner, Chief Financial Officer
214-884-3829
Source:Capital Southwest Corporation