Alexandria, Virginia, Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization is proud to welcome four new individuals to the organization’s Board of Directors. The full NHPCO board will meet for its first meeting of the year on January 25 in San Antonio.
Joining the NHPCO board for three year terms are:
Samira Beckwith, ACSW, LCSW, FACHE , President and CEO, Hope Hospice and Community Services
Fort Myers, Florida Sandy Kuhlman, BSN , Executive Director, Hospice Services, Inc.
Phillipsburg, Kansas Balu Natarajan, MD , Chief Medical Officer, Seasons Hospice and Palliative Care
Rosemont, Illinois Stacie Pinderhughes, MD , Medical Director, Optumcare, Complex Care Management
Phoenix, Arizona
Jan Jones, of The Elizabeth Hospice, continues in her second year as board-chair.
Joining Jones on the board’s executive committee are Gregory Wood, vice-chair, of Hospice of the Ozarks; Regina Bodnar, secretary, of Carroll Hospice; David Williams, treasurer, of VITAS Healthcare; and Edo Banach, NHPCO president and CEO. Additional members of the executive committee are Suzi Johnson of Sharp HospiceCare, Rafael Sciullo of Empath Health/Suncoast Hospice, and Norman McRae of Caris HealthCare, LP.
“NHPCO thanks all the new and existing board members for their dedicated service on behalf of our nation’s hospice and palliative care provider community as well as the millions of patients and family caregivers that benefit from the care that our diverse membership provides,” said Edo Banach, president and CEO of NHPCO.
“Board members come from programs that vary in size and structure, serve urban and rural areas, and represent single-site and multi-state providers. We all share a common goal to advance interdisciplinary, person-centered care to all those with or at risk of serious illness,” Banach added.
NHPCO extends special thanks to the board members who concluded service in 2017: Linda Todd, Kenneth Zeri, SueAnn Reynolds, and Lori Bishop.
A list of NHPCO’s full board of directors is available in the “About NHPCO” section of the organization’s website.
To learn more about hospice and palliative care or to find a provider in your community, visit NHPCO’s CaringInfo.org website.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/eb059a84-6586-4147-8bad-48a8fb2aa0c1
Jon Radulovic National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization 703-837-3139 jradulovic@nhpco.org
Source:National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization