NEW YORK, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- DanDrit Biotech USA, Inc. ("DanDrit") announces the appointment of Ambassador Mark Dybul, MD, as Chairman, and Steven Deeks, MD to its Scientific Advisory Board.
"We are excited about the addition of two renowned experts on the treatment of HIV to our SAB as we prepare to expand our development pipeline into HIV," said Eric Leire, MD, DanDrit´s CEO.
Ambassador Dybul has served as Deputy Chief Medical Officer of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief since 2004. Ambassador Dybul co-directs the Global Health Law Program at Georgetown University Law Center's O'Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law, where he is a Distinguished Visiting Scholar. He is the inaugural Global Health Fellow of the George W. Bush Institute and serves as Managing Director of the Office of the U.N. Special Envoy for Malaria. He served as U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator from 2006 through 2009.
Dr. Steven G. Deeks is a Professor of Medicine in Residence at the University of California, San Francisco and a faculty member in the Division of HIV, Infectious Diseases and Global Medicine at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital. Dr. Deeks has been engaged in HIV research and clinical care since 1993. He is a recognized expert on HIV-associated immune dysfunction and its impact on HIV persistence and health during antiretroviral therapy.
About DanDrit
DanDrit Biotech USA, Inc. (OTCQB: DDRT) is a development stage, biopharmaceutical company with 15 year history developing immunotherapies for various types of cancer.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release not strictly historical in nature are forward-looking statements, which are predictions based on current information, involve risks and uncertainties and can be identified by terminology such as "believes, plans" "expects" or similar expressions. Actual events or results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including the risks set forth in DanDrit's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and risks specific to the matters described herein, such as the consummation of the acquisition of Enochian and the success of the technology described herein. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak as of the date hereof. DanDrit undertakes no obligation to revise or update this press release after the date hereof.
Contact:
Eric Leire
510-203-4857
epl@dandrit.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dandrit-announces-new-scientific-advisory-board-members-300586922.html
SOURCE DanDrit Biotech USA, Inc.