NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on WBS, HBHC, IBKC, and PNFP which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . WallStEquities.com revisits the Financial sector, which is a category of stocks containing firms that provide financial services to commercial and retail customers. This sector includes banks, investment funds, insurance companies, and real estate. Under evaluation this morning are: Webster Financial Corp. (NYSE: WBS), Hancock Holding Co. (NASDAQ: HBHC), IBERIABANK Corp. (NASDAQ: IBKC), and Pinnacle Financial Partners Inc. (NASDAQ: PNFP). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Webster Financial
On Monday, shares in Waterbury, Connecticut headquartered Webster Financial Corp. recorded a trading volume of 321,873 shares. The stock ended at $57.23, declining 0.33% from the last trading session. The Company's shares have gained 0.93% in the last month, 7.96% over the previous three months, and 5.22% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 3.38% and 10.56%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Webster Financial, which operates as the holding company for Webster Bank, National Association that provides financial services to individuals, families, and businesses in the US, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 57.62.
On December 13 th , 2017, Webster Financial announced that it has raised its prime lending rate to 4.50% from 4.25%, effective December 14 th , 2017.
On January 05 th , 2018, research firm Piper Jaffray upgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Underweight' to 'Neutral'. Get the full research report on WBS for free by clicking below at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=WBS
Hancock Holding
Gulfport, Mississippi headquartered Hancock Holding Co.'s stock finished yesterday's session 0.68% higher at $51.65. A total volume of 566,473 shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 473,620 shares. The Company's shares have gained 3.51% in the last month, 6.17% over the previous three months, and 17.52% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 4.13% and 8.99%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Hancock, which operates as the bank holding company for Whitney Bank that provides a range of community banking services to commercial, small business, and retail customers, have an RSI of 62.21.
On December 22 nd , 2017, Hancock announced that it will release its Q4 2017 financial results on January 17 th , 2018, after the market closes. Management will host a conference call for analysts and investors at 9:00 a.m. CT on January 18 th , 2018, to review the results. A live, listen-only webcast of the call will be available under the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.
On January 04 th , 2018, research firm Sandler O'Neill upgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Hold' to 'Buy'. The free technical report on HBHC can be accessed at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=HBHC
IBERIABANK
At the close of trading on Monday, shares in Lafayette, Louisiana headquartered IBERIABANK Corp. saw a slight drop of 0.38%, ending the day at $77.85. The stock recorded a trading volume of 540,809 shares, which was above its three months average volume of 497,120 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 1.10% in the last month. The stock is trading 2.82% above its 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of IBERIABANK, which operates as the bank holding company for IBERIABANK that provides commercial and retail banking products and services in the US, have an RSI of 54.62.
On December 19 th , 2017, IBERIABANK's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.37 per common share, payable on January 26 th , 2018, to shareholders of record as of December 29 th , 2017. This quarterly dividend level equates to an annualized dividend rate of $1.48 per common share.
On December 20 th , 2017, research firm Raymond James downgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Strong Buy' to 'Outperform'. Sign up for free on Wall St. Equities and claim the latest report on IBKC at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=IBKC
Pinnacle Financial Partners
Nashville, Tennessee headquartered Pinnacle Financial Partners Inc.'s shares ended the day 0.15% lower at $66.95. A total volume of 432,310 shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 389,230 shares. The stock is trading 0.84% above its 50-day moving average and 4.05% above its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of the Company, which operates as a bank holding company for Pinnacle Bank that provides various banking products and services in the US, have an RSI of 51.76.
On December 21 st , 2017, research firm Wells Fargo initiated an 'Outperform' rating on the Company's stock, with a target price of $80 per share. See the free research coverage on PNFP at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=PNFP
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are n