ROCHESTER, N.Y., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BCC Software LLC, a premium provider of address quality, postal software, and data-based solutions, is pleased to announce that Anita Pursley has joined the company as Senior Manager of Industry Affairs.
Pursley joins BCC Software with decades of industry experience and expertise, including serving for two years as the Industry Co-Chair of the Postmaster General's Mailer Technical Advisory Committee (MTAC) and similar roles at some of the industry's largest and most influential companies. Pursley has also been recognized by the industry with several honors and awards, including the Postmaster General's Postal Customer Council Lifetime Achievement Award, the USPS Special Achievement award, the IDEAlliance Donald M. Mumma Award, and is a member of the IDEAlliance Soderstrom Honor Society. She is a regarded thought leader, frequently presenting at the National Postal Forum, the American Catalog Mailers, National Etailing and Mailing Organization of America (NEMOA), and IDEAlliance conferences.
BCC Software company president, Chris Lien, who is a fellow IDEAlliance Soderstrom Honor Society member and recipient of the IDEAlliance Donald M. Mumma Award, is excited to have Pursley join the company. "Very few individuals in this industry have the breadth of knowledge about the mail supply chain and are as well respected as Anita Pursley. I have had the pleasure of working with Anita in numerous MTAC workgroups and industry association meetings throughout my career and am thrilled to be working with her now at BCC Software. Her experience and vast industry connections come to BCC Software at a key moment of tremendous growth, as we continue to expand our software technology and data enrichment services," said Chris Lien, president of BCC Software.
As Senior Manager of Industry Affairs, Pursley will be entrenched in all major industry events and associations, representing BCC Software and advocating on behalf of its customers. She will be instrumental in providing consultation and education to BCC Software customers, partners, and internal teams. As the direct communications landscape changes, Pursley will be a critical component to ensure BCC Software and their customers are well positioned to take advantage of new opportunities.
"BCC Software is a company that clearly recognizes the importance of staying abreast and working with the USPS in a rapidly changing regulatory environment," said Pursley. "BCC Software's commitment allows rapid adoption and integration of technologies that maximize customer and industry benefits. I am thrilled to be a part of this forward-looking team."
BCC Software is celebrating its 40th year in business in 2018, and continues to be the leader in the mailing and postal software industry. With the recent acquisition by Thompson Street Capital Partners, BCC Software is more committed to the industry than ever, and plans for continued focus on the needs of its customers, and future growth of the company and industry overall.
"For 40 years, BCC Software has been servicing our customers with a legendary How Can We Help approach, demonstrated through our software, services, and live customer support," said Lien. "With a new growth-minded owner, our proven BCC Mail Manager family of products, an expansive Integratec API platform, and the most comprehensive on-demand data enrichment services available, we are excited about the future growth opportunities we see in leveraging the high-touch of direct communications with high-tech digital complementary messaging."
About BCC Software, LLC:
Based in Rochester, NY, BCC Software creates innovative postal software solutions and provides extensive data marketing services. The company was founded in 1978 and employs approximately 80 people. More information on BCC Software can be found at www.bccsoftware.com or by calling 800.624.5234.
About Thompson Street Capital Partners:
Thompson Street Capital Partners (TSCP) is a St. Louis-based private equity firm that invests in growing niche leaders within the middle market space. It has acquired more than 100 companies in the Healthcare & Life Science Services, Software & Technology Services and Business Services & Engineered Products sectors and has managed more than $1.5 billion since being founded in 2000.
BCC Software Media Contact:
Shawn Ryan, Vice President, Product Strategy, shawnr@bccsoftware.com , 585.341.3357
© 2018 BCC Software, LLC. All rights reserved. BCC Software, Integratec, BCC Mail Manager, the BCC Software logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of BCC Software, LLC.
Related Links
Company Website
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/anita-pursley-joins-bcc-software-as-senior-manager-of-industry-affairs-300582515.html
SOURCE BCC Software