ALPHARETTA, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Agilysys, Inc. (Nasdaq: AGYS) , a leading global provider of next-generation hospitality software solutions and services, announced today that it will release its fiscal 2018 third quarter results after the market closes on Thursday, January 25, 2018 and host a conference call and webcast at 4:30 p.m. ET that day. Both the call and webcast are open to the general public.
The conference call number is 224-357-2393 (domestic or international); and the conference ID number is 8686577. Please call five minutes prior to the presentation to ensure that you are connected. Interested parties may also access the conference call live on the Internet at http://www.agilysys.com/company/investor-relations/events-presentations . Approximately two hours after the call has concluded, an archived version of the webcast will be available for replay at the same location at http://www.agilysys.com/company/investor-relations/events-presentations .
About Agilysys
Agilysys is a leading technology company that provides innovative software and services for point-of-sale (POS) , property management (PMS) , reservation and table management , inventory and procurement , workforce management , analytics , document management , and mobile and wireless solutions exclusively to the hospitality industry. Our products and services allow operators to streamline operations, improve efficiency and understand customer needs across their properties to deliver a superior overall guest experience. The result is improved guest loyalty, growth in wallet share and increased revenue as they connect and transact with their guests based upon a single integrated view of individual preferences and interactions. We serve four major market sectors: Gaming, both corporate and tribal; Hotels, Resorts and Cruise; Corporate Foodservice Management; and Restaurants, Universities, Stadia and Healthcare.
Agilysys operates across North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and India with headquarters located in Alpharetta, GA. For more information, visit www.agilysys.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005128/en/
Investor:
Agilysys, Inc.
Tony Pritchett, 770-810-7941
Chief Financial Officer
investorrelations@agilysys.com
or
JCIR
Richard Land, Norberto Aja, Jim Leahy
212-835-8500 or agys@jcir.com
Source: Agilysys, Inc.