LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Windstream (NASDAQ:WIN), a leading provider of advanced network communications, today announced that it has named Eric Solomon as vice president of channel sales for the western region. In his role at Windstream, he will be responsible for growing revenue through Windstream’s partner community in that market.
“During the past year, we invested in strengthening and rebuilding relationships with the channel partners and resellers who are integral to Windstream’s success,” said Curt Allen, senior vice president for Windstream Channel. “We are pleased to welcome Eric, a widely-respected and highly-accomplished, results-focused sales leader in the channel community. His reputation for building sales channels through strategic planning, market understanding, and partner management has made him a leader in bringing in high volumes of business.”
Solomon has more than 15 years’ experience in the industry and comes to Windstream from Masergy, where he was global account manager working with master agents and top channel partners to help them increase revenue by selling the company’s suite of services. Prior to that, Solomon worked at Windstream where he was a top-performing senior sales channel manager for eight years running, earning a promotion to senior sales channel director. In that role, he worked with Windstream "Next Generation Technology Partners"​ and Windstream channel managers throughout the central region to promote and sell Windstream's suite of strategic products and services such as Wide Area Networks, Managed Hosting, Managed PBX and High Cap Data. Solomon also has worked for Covad and Birch in channel management and for ISG Communications in account management.
Solomon will report directly to Curt Allen and will be relocating from Chicago to southern California in early 2018.
Windstream offers a range of complementary network and communications solutions, including our proprietary OfficeSuite® UCaaS solution, integrated network security, and access transport and business continuity solutions including Ethernet, Wavelengths with Optical Encryption and Fixed Wireless. Windstream’s solutions are collectively designed to help businesses increase productivity, improve ROI and win. More at windstreambusiness.com .
About Windstream
Windstream Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIN), a FORTUNE 500 company, is a leading provider of advanced technology solutions for consumers, businesses, enterprise organizations and wholesale customers across the U.S. Windstream offers bundled services, including broadband, security solutions, voice and digital TV to consumers. The company also provides data, cloud solutions, unified communications and managed services to small business and enterprise clients. The company supplies core transport solutions on a local and long-haul fiber network spanning approximately 150,000 miles. Additional information is available at windstream.com . Please visit our newsroom at news.windstream.com or follow us on Twitter at @Windstream .
Media Contact
Sarah C. Davis, 720.529.7611
sarah.c.davis@windstream.com
Source:Windstream Holdings, Inc.