HOUSTON, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- American Midstream Partners, LP (NYSE: AMID) ("AMID") today announced that the general partner of the Partnership appointed Christopher B. Dial as Senior Vice President and General Counsel effective today.
Mr. Dial has extensive legal experience in both private and public practice, including publicly traded master limited partnerships. Chris brings substantial knowledge in partnership formation, complex financings, corporate and capital market transactions. Chris is the former General Counsel of Susser Holding II, LP. Prior to joining Susser, Chris was Associate General Counsel of Susser Holdings Corporation and Sunoco, LP. Chris began his career as an Associate Attorney for Andrews Kurth, LLP where he primarily represented energy clients on a variety of general corporate and securities matters. Chris holds a Juris Doctor from the University of Houston Law Center and a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Southwestern University.
"We are excited to welcome Chris to American Midstream. With his extensive legal experience, including several years with a public master limited partnership, he will be a great asset to the management team and the company. Chris's vast knowledge and expertise across energy related matters makes him a great fit for this role and enables him to help position AMID as a leading midstream partnership as we continue our transformation," stated Lynn Bourdon III, President and Chief Executive Officer.
About American Midstream Partners, LP
American Midstream Partners, LP is a growth-oriented limited partnership formed to provide critical midstream infrastructure that links producers of natural gas, crude oil, NGLs, condensate and specialty chemicals to end-use markets. American Midstream's assets are strategically located in some of the most prolific offshore and onshore basins in the Permian, Eagle Ford, East Texas, Bakken and Gulf Coast. American Midstream owns or has an ownership interest in approximately 5,100 miles of interstate and intrastate pipelines, as well as ownership in gas processing plants, fractionation facilities, an offshore semisubmersible floating production system with nameplate processing capacity of 100 MBbl/d of crude oil and 240 MMcf/d of natural gas; and terminal sites with approximately 6.7 MMBbls of storage capacity.
For more information about American Midstream Partners, LP, visit: www.americanmidstream.com . The content of our website is not part of this release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements related to the Partnership's expectations regarding the timing of the proposed offering and use of proceeds. We have used the words "could," "expect," "intend," "may," "will," "would" and similar terms and phrases to identify forward-looking statements in this press release. Although we believe the assumptions upon which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions could be incorrect. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. These factors include the risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A. in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the SEC on March 28, 2017, our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 9, 2017, and our other filings with the SEC. All future written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the previous statements. The forward-looking statements herein speak as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to update such statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Investor Contact
American Midstream Partners, LP
Mark Schuck
Director of Investor Relations
(346) 241-3497
mschuck@americanmidstream.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/american-midstream-appoints-dial-as-senior-vice-president-and-general-counsel-300585663.html
SOURCE American Midstream Partners, LP