AUSTIN, Texas, Asure Software (NASDAQ:ASUR), a leading provider of Human Capital Management (HCM) and workplace management software, announced today that it has acquired Savers Admin. Based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Savers Admin is an SSAE certified third party administrator (TPA) specializing in customized products and services for companies of all sizes.
Since 1996, Savers Admin has provided employer solutions to hundreds of organizations in the Carolinas, including payroll administration, COBRA administration, Section 125 (Cafeteria Plan) administration, Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) administration, and employee benefits administration. Savers Admin also delivers human resources support through its HR consulting services and comprehensive HRIS platform, powered by Evolution, an Asure Software solution.
Asure CEO Pat Goepel said the acquisition of Savers Admin allows the company to expand its solution into the Carolinas, delivering a complete workforce solution. “The acquisition is a natural next step for Asure and Savers Admin, which currently resells the Asure’s Evolution HRIS. Through the acquisition, Savers Admin customers will have the opportunity to access the entire suite of Asure Software’s solutions to help organizations build workplaces of the future, including our powerful digital workspace solutions.”
Savers Admin clients will continue to receive the local HR consulting expertise and payroll and benefits support that they have come to value and expect, but will now benefit from access to Asure’s workforce and workplace management solutions as well as the enhanced, more robust support of a larger organization. Savers Admin President Debbie Berg said, “We are thrilled to partner with Asure Software, enabling our clients to directly align with the manufacturer of the software, thus providing a fully integrated and seamless solution for their Human Capital Management. By joining forces with an enterprise organization like Asure, Savers Admin will rise to a higher level of service delivery, expand our expertise and do more for our clients.”
With a suite of products including HCM software, AsureForce Time & Labor Management, and the AsureSpace SaaS platform for managing, monitoring and analyzing the Agile Workplace, Asure is committed to helping clients optimize their people and their resources.
About Asure Software
Asure Software, Inc., headquartered in Austin, Texas, offers intuitive and innovative solutions designed to help organizations of all sizes and complexities build companies of the future. Our cloud platforms enable more than 80,000 clients worldwide to better manage their people and space in a mobile, digital, multi-generational, and global workplace. Asure Software’s offerings include a fully-integrated HCM platform, flexible benefits and compliance administration, HR consulting, and time and labor management as well as a full suite of workspace management solutions for conference room scheduling, desk sharing programs, and real estate optimization. Visit us at www.asuresoftware.com .
Contact:
Stacy Zellner
Director of Marketing, Asure Software
Telephone: 888-323-8835 x 3111
E-mail: szellner@asuresoftware.com
Source:Asure Software Inc