WOONSOCKET, R.I., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- This morning CVS Health (NYSE: CVS) issued its initial outlook for 2018, expressing confidence in the execution of its growth strategy.
For full-year 2018, the company expects to deliver consolidated net revenue growth of 0.75% to 2.5% and adjusted consolidated operating profit growth of 1% to 4%. Adjusted operating profit in its Retail/LTC segment is expected to grow in the low-single digits and adjusted operating profit in its Pharmacy Services segment is expected to grow in the low- to mid-single digits. Strong growth in scripts and claims, continued purchasing efficiencies from the company's Red Oak venture, and incremental net benefits from the company's streamlining initiative are expected to be beneficial contributors to enterprise growth.
Operating profit growth in 2018 is expected to be unfavorably affected by costs associated with the company's implementation of its contract to provide PBM services to Anthem, Inc. beginning in 2020, as well as the recent divestiture of RxCrossroads. Together, these two factors reduce expected adjusted consolidated operating profit growth by approximately 125 basis points. While the company continues to expect its pending acquisition of Aetna Inc. to close during the second half of 2018, for guidance purposes only, the acquisition is assumed to close after year-end 2018. As with past acquisitions, all acquisition-related transaction, integration and bridge financing costs will be excluded from the company's adjusted figures.
In the Retail/LTC segment, the company expects revenue growth of 2.5% to 4%, driven by strong same store script growth of 6% to 7% primarily as a result of broader partnerships established with PBMs and health plans and its expanded participation as a preferred pharmacy in a greater number of Medicare Part D networks. The company expects same store sales to be in the range of 2% to 3.5%.
In the Pharmacy Services segment, the company expects claims growth of approximately 8% and revenue growth of 1.5% to 3.5%. Factors impacting revenue growth include the administration of rebates for Aetna's Medicare Part D business, which begins in 2018 under the companies' existing PBM contract; the expectation that generic specialty introductions will increase; the continuation of brand inflation at levels lower than the market has historically seen; and continuing pricing pressures.
The company expects net interest expense in a range of $2.0 billion to $2.3 billion in 2018. It expects to use cash on hand to retire debt that will be maturing during the year, but in addition to interest on its existing portfolio of debt, the company will incur acquisition-related bridge financing fees as well as interest on the new debt expected to be issued to fund the acquisition. The guidance range takes into account the variability of timing of issuance and interest rates as well as the mix of maturities of the new debt.
The company will benefit from the recent comprehensive tax reform signed into law last month. Taking into account the change in the statutory federal rate as well as the law's effects on state taxes and other permanent items, the company expects its effective tax rate to be approximately 27% in 2018. This reduction in the tax rate represents an increase in cash flow of approximately $1.2 billion. With the financial flexibility that tax reform provides, the company anticipates making strategic investments in future areas of growth in its business, particularly as CVS Health and Aetna combine to remake the consumer health experience, and will have more to say as plans are finalized.
As previously announced, the company suspended share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2017 due to its pending acquisition of Aetna Inc. Absent the suspension, share repurchases in 2018 would have contributed approximately 340 to 610 basis points of growth to adjusted EPS. The company had also previously announced that it would maintain its current annual dividend of $2.00 per share throughout the year.
Additionally, the company revised its outlook for the fourth quarter of 2017. Due to softer margin performance in the PBM's client and retail network claims management process, the company now expects a mid-teens growth rate in the fourth quarter and about 4% for the full year for the Pharmacy Services segment's adjusted operating profit. The company continues to expect fourth quarter operating profit from its Retail/LTC segment to be at the high end of its previously-provided range of (3.5%) to (1.0%). Combined with the impact from the suspension of share repurchases, offset by a better effective tax rate, the company expects to deliver adjusted consolidated operating profit growth and adjusted EPS at the lower end of their respective ranges provided during its third quarter 2017 earnings call. At that time, the company expected adjusted consolidated operating profit growth of 5.75% to 8% and adjusted EPS of $1.88 to $1.92. Also, the company expects to meaningfully benefit in the fourth quarter from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but estimates of these benefits have not been included as the company is currently assessing the law's impact on its 2017 financial statements.
Teleconference and Webcast
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 11:00 am (ET) to discuss its guidance expectations. An audio webcast of the call will be broadcast simultaneously for all interested parties through the Investor Relations section of the CVS Health website at http://investors.cvshealth.com . This webcast will be archived and available on the website for a one-year period following the conference call.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
CVS Health is providing non-GAAP information on a prospective basis that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. CVS Health's definitions of these non-GAAP items may not be comparable to similarly-titled measurements reported by other companies.
Adjusted earnings per share, or adjusted EPS, is income from continuing operations excluding the impact of certain adjustments such as the amortization of intangible assets, acquisition-related integration costs, charges in connection with store rationalization, goodwill impairments, adjustments to legal reserves in connection with certain legal settlements, losses on early extinguishment of debt and losses on settlements of defined benefit pension plans, and the income tax benefit associated with the Tax Reform and Jobs Act included as part of these adjustments for (a) expected EPS for Q4 2017 and 2017 full-year, are amounts related to bridge financing fees and transaction costs for the proposed acquisition of Aetna, as well as transaction costs fo