ANDOVER, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- ICP Construction, a division of Innovative Chemical Products (the ICP Group), announced today the acquisition of Arizona Polymer Flooring, a leading manufacturer of high-performance flooring products and concrete coating systems.
ICP Group is a leading specialty platform company in the coatings, adhesives, sealants and elastomers (CASE) markets. The company will join the current ICP Construction division, which includes market-leading brands California Paints, FixALL, Storm System, Fiberlock, Dry-Treat, California Sports Surfaces, Rock-Tred, Scuffmaster, Zolatone and ClearErase.
The acquisition of Arizona Polymer Flooring adds dozens more high-value flooring brands to both ICP Group and ICP Construction. It also extends ICP Construction’s manufacturing and distribution capabilities to Arizona and the West Coast, better supporting existing customers in those geographies.
“This was an important acquisition for ICP Group. Arizona Polymer Flooring is a respected brand throughout many industries––military and aerospace, food and beverage, hospitality and entertainment, government, and more. The acquisition opens the door to new and expanded offerings for current ICP Group and Arizona Polymer Flooring customers,” said Doug Mattscheck, CEO of ICP Group.
Zain Mahmood, President of ICP Construction adds, “Like ICP Group, Arizona Polymer Flooring is an innovative leader. Their advancements in increasing the performance and durability of epoxy, polyurethane and acrylic technology are impressive. We plan on exploring how to best combine resources to ensure we continue delivering the highest quality and most advanced products in the industry.”
Arizona Polymer Flooring was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Phoenix, Ariz., with an additional manufacturing facility located in Texas.
Last year, Arizona Polymer Flooring debuted a new 50,000 square foot state-of-the-art facility in Phoenix that houses corporate offices, a manufacturing facility, and a warehouse and training facility that allows the company to more efficiently streamline operations and better serve customers.
Daniel Owen, current Owner and President of Arizona Polymer Flooring, will remain in his role throughout the transition. “I’m so proud of everything our team has accomplished throughout the last three decades. It’s been an honor to oversee our innovation, expansion and elevated level of service,“ said Owen. “Joining ICP Group will help secure our legacy in our industries, and our customers will benefit by using their advanced technology and vast resources to reach more customers.”
Mattscheck added, “This is an exciting day for Arizona Polymer Flooring and ICP Group. We look forward to having many new, talented people joining the ICP team.”
Innovative Chemical Products (the ICP Group) is a portfolio company of Audax Private Equity.
About ICP Construction, a division of the ICP Group
A global leader in the paints and coatings industry, ICP Construction is committed to providing the highest quality paints, coatings, sports surfaces and environmental remediation solutions for the architectural and building industries. Our family of award-winning brands provides innovative products, support and dedication to our customers. Our products set the standard in their markets, and our continued investment in advanced technology and delivery offers unparalleled value to our customers. Visit www.icp-construction.com for more information.
About ICP Group
Innovative Chemical Products (the ICP Group) is a leading specialty chemical company engaged in the formulation, manufacturing, and marketing of coatings, adhesives, sealants and elastomers (CASE). With operations headquartered in Andover, Mass., and divisional headquarters in Massachusetts, Ohio and Illinois, ICP serves multiple end markets, including: OEM, industrial, building materials, packaging, printing, specialty construction, and sports surfaces. ICP Group is privately held and manufactures products under several recognized, specialty brands. For more information on the Construction, Adhesives & Sealants, and Industrial divisions of the ICP Group, visit www.icpgroup.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005835/en/
CompleteSpectrum
Phillip McMillan, 813-907-2150
media@icpgroup.com
Source: ICP Construction