SAN DIEGO, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Renovate America, a leading U.S. provider of home-improvement financing, announced today that CEO Roy Guthrie had named Adam Garfinkle to the position of Chief Financial Officer. Garfinkle, who joined Renovate America in 2015 as SVP and Head of Capital Markets, brings over 30 years of experience in financial services, much of it in structured products investment banking, sales & trading and M&A advisory.
In announcing the move, Guthrie cited Garfinkle's leadership, commitment to team, and his total focus on maximizing the organization's potential. Guthrie noted that under Garfinkle's leadership, Renovate America's Capital Markets team had become the gold standard among providers of Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing in terms of efficient execution in the structured-finance marketplace.
"An excellent CFO is someone who is a great business partner, who leads from up front and pushes from behind to make everyone across the organization better and provides the support necessary for our shared success," Guthrie said. "Based on his track record and the way he has showed up since his arrival, I am confident that Adam will play that role for Renovate America.
"Adam's work in building the HERO PACE ABS platform has drawn an ongoing stream of capital into achieving public policy priorities, helping make Renovate America's public-private partnership with more than 700 local governments in three states a significant driver as we upgrade our energy infrastructure," Guthrie added.
Garfinkle, whose new role took effect Friday, Jan. 5, spent 13 years as Head of the Asset Backed & Mortgage Backed Structured Finance Group at Bank of America Securities where he managed a team of more than 125 professionals. He was also a founding executive at RoundPoint Financial Group.
Guthrie also announced that Craig Braun, who joined Renovate America in 2014 as Managing Director of Capital Markets, had assumed the role of SVP and Head of Capital Markets, replacing Garfinkle. Braun brings nearly 30 years of experience in capital markets.
About Renovate America
Renovate America offers a tech-enabled financing platform for home improvement and commercial retrofits that empowers communities to modernize and make their housing stock more efficient, while giving small businesses the tools they need to grow. In addition to financing home improvements through an unsecured lending product, Benji , Renovate America offers communities HERO financing . HERO is the leading residential Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program in the U.S. and has been used by the owners of over 110,000 homes to make energy and efficiency improvements. It is estimated that HERO is on track to save billions of dollars in energy and water bills, and has created over 23,000 local trade jobs that cannot be offshored or automated. Renovate America has built the world's largest green bond platform, with a volume of originations that enables securitization of HERO PACE bonds multiple times a year, attracting international investment to meet U.S. clean-energy objectives.
Contact: Greg Frost
(619) 568-6747
gfrost@renovateamerica.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/adam-garfinkle-named-chief-financial-officer-at-renovate-america-300579620.html
SOURCE Renovate America