ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Highway Loss Data Institute is pleased to announce the election of Michael Petrarca as chairman of its Board of Directors. Petrarca is senior assistant vice president, Amica Mutual Insurance. He succeeds H. Todd Pearce, director and assistant actuary, GEICO pricing, product, and reserving department, GEICO Corporation, who served as HLDI chairman during 2017 and will remain as a Board member.
"HLDI's comprehensive analysis of claims data helps insurers understand how trends in the vehicle fleet and changes in state laws affect insurance losses and highway safety," Petrarca says. "I look forward to working with my Board colleagues this year to support HLDI's important work."
"We are delighted to welcome Mike as our new chairman," says David Harkey, who assumed the role of HLDI president in January. "We will lean on Mike's expertise and leadership in 2018 as we broaden our analyses of motor vehicle loss information."
The new Board vice chairman is Anthony E. Ptasznik, who is vice president and ACIA chief actuarial officer of Auto Club Group.
Other HLDI Board members are:
Justin B. Cruz, vice president, strategic data and analytics, American Family Mutual Insurance Company
David Cummings, senior vice president, chief P&C actuary and head of analytics, USAA
Michael D. Doerfler, product development manager, Progressive Insurance
Josh Grunin, assistant vice president data science, The Hartford
John Hardiman, director of public affairs, New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance Group
David Harkey, president, Highway Loss Data Institute and Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
Robert Harrington, vice president – data, Erie Insurance Group
Craig Kehrberg, senior auto product manager, PEMCO Insurance
Andy Lau, senior vice president and chief data and analytics officer, Kemper Corporation
Richard Lonardo, vice president, MetLife Auto & Home
Justin Milam, vice president, personal lines actuarial research, American National
Hamid Mirza, executive vice president and chief product officer, global consumer markets, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
Thomas G. Myers, enterprise chief actuary, Plymouth Rock Assurance
James L. Nutting, senior vice president and chief actuary, Farmers Insurance Group
Kathleen Ores Walsh, director, national product management, COUNTRY Financial
Robert C. Passmore, assistant vice president, personal lines policy, Property Casualty Insurers Association of America
Thomas Rau, director, property casualty actuarial research analytics, Nationwide Insurance
Bill Reddington, director, actuarial services, Kentucky Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Companies
Michael Stienstra, vice president-actuarial, Chubb personal risk services, CHUBB
Laurette Stiles, vice president, strategic resources, State Farm Insurance Companies
James Whittle, associate general counsel and chief claims counsel, American Insurance Association
Geoff Williams, vice president, auto product management, Allstate Insurance Group
Andrew Woods, vice president, research and development, personal insurance, The Travelers Companies
John Xu, vice president, actuarial, CSAA Insurance Group
For more information, go to iihs.org
The Highway Loss Data Institute (HLDI), an affiliate of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), is a nonprofit research organization that publishes insurance loss statistics on most car, SUV, pickup truck and motorcycle models on U.S. and Canadian roads. HLDI is wholly supported by auto insurers.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amicas-petrarca-elected-hldi-chairman-300587062.html
SOURCE Highway Loss Data Institute