SAN DIEGO, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Shareholder rights law firm Johnson Fistel, LLP has launched an investigation into whether the board members of Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc. ("Cascadian") (NASDAQ: CASC) breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed sale of the Company to Seattle Genetics. Cascadian is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, that research and develops, and sells therapeutic products for the treatment of cancer.
On January 31, 2018, Cascadian announced that it had signed a definitive merger agreement with Seattle Genetics. Under the terms of the agreement, Seattle Genetics will acquire each share of outstanding common stock of Cascadian in exchange for $10.00 per share in cash.
The investigation concerns whether the Cascadian board failed to satisfy its duties to the Company shareholders, including whether the board adequately pursued alternatives to the acquisition and whether the board obtained the best price possible for Cascadian shares of common stock. Nationally recognized Johnson Fistel is investigating whether the proposed deal represents adequate consideration, especially since the Company announced that the pivotal registrational trial of tucatinib for patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer remains on track.
If you are a shareholder of Cascadian and believe the proposed buyout price is too low or you're interested in learning more about the investigation or your legal rights and remedies, please contact lead analyst Jim Baker ( jimb@johnsonfistel.com ) at 619-814-4471 . If emailing, please include a phone number.
About Johnson Fistel, LLP:
Johnson Fistel, LLP is a nationally recognized shareholder rights law firm with offices in California, New York and Georgia. The firm represents individual and institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits. For more information about the firm and its attorneys, please visit http://www.johnsonfistel.com . Attorney advertising. Past results do not guarantee future outcomes.
Contact:
Johnson Fistel, LLP
Jim Baker, 619-814-4471
jimb@johnsonfistel.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cascadian-casc-alert-johnson-fistel-investigates-proposed-sale-of-cascadian-therapeutics-inc-is-1000-a-fair-price-for-shareholders-300591068.html
SOURCE Johnson Fistel, LLP