MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Piper Jaffray Companies (NYSE: PJC), a leading investment bank and asset management firm, is pleased to announce the hiring of Tyler Van Buren as a senior research analyst responsible for covering biotechnology companies. He will be based in the firm’s New York office.
In 2017, Institutional Investor recognized Van Buren as the No. 1 Rising Star in the specialty pharma category and the No. 2 Rising Star across therapeutics. He joins Piper Jaffray from Cowen and Company, where he was an equity research analyst covering large and smid-cap biopharma companies for five years. Prior to that, Van Buren was a founding member and managing director at New York-based LifeSci Advisors, where he helped build the firm’s biotechnology research practice. Earlier in his career, he worked at Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Lithera Pharmaceuticals, the Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
“Tyler brings a breadth of both industry and sell-side experience across biopharma, biotech and the broader healthcare space. This addition will add strength to our firm’s overall leadership in the healthcare sector and add immediate value for our clients,” said Michael Cox , director of equity research at Piper Jaffray.
Van Buren earned a master’s degree in biology and a bachelor’s degree in biochemistry and cellular biology from the University of California, San Diego.
The Piper Jaffray equity research group consists of 40 senior analysts covering 680 companies across the following sectors: consumer, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrials & business services, and technology.
About Piper Jaffray
Piper Jaffray Companies (NYSE: PJC) is a leading investment bank and asset management firm. Securities brokerage and investment banking services are offered in the U.S. through Piper Jaffray & Co., member SIPC and FINRA; in Europe through Piper Jaffray Ltd. and Simmons & Company International Limited, authorized and regulated by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority; and in Hong Kong through Piper Jaffray Hong Kong Limited, authorized and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission. Asset management products and services are offered through five separate investment advisory affiliates―U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registered Advisory Research, Inc.; Piper Jaffray Investment Management LLC, PJC Capital Partners LLC and Piper Jaffray & Co.; and Guernsey-based Parallel General Partners Limited, authorized and regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Follow Piper Jaffray: LinkedIn | Facebook | Twitter
© 2018 Piper Jaffray Companies, 800 Nicollet Mall, Suite 1000, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-7036
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006575/en/
Piper Jaffray Companies
Pamela Steensland, 612-303-8185
analystmediarelations@pjc.com
Source: Piper Jaffray Companies