January 27, 2018 / 10:55 AM / Updated 41 minutes ago UPDATE 1-Cricket-Amla, Elgar survive rain-shortened opening session Reuters Staff 
* Play started an hour late due to damp outfield 
* South Africa need another 172 runs with nine wickets left 
* Umpires continue to monitor the misbehaving Wanderers wicket (adds details at lunch) 
JOHANNESBURG, Jan 27 (Reuters) - Hashim Amla and Dean Elgar survived a rain-shortened opening session to lead South Africa to 69 for one in their second innings at lunch on day four of the controversial third and final test against India at the Wanderers on Saturday. 
The home side need another 172 runs for what would be a memorable victory on a treacherous wicket that has pace, prodigious bounce and lateral movement. 
Amla (27 not out) and Elgar (29 not out) have added 64 for the second wicket as the Indian bowlers failed to exploit the helpful seam conditions by at times bowling too short when most of the trouble for batsmen in the test has come off a good length. 
If South Africa can claim the win it will be the third highest run chase in Johannesburg, and the best the home side have managed in 38 tests at the venue. 
The start of play was delayed for an hour because of a damp outfield following heavy overnight rain. 
The Indian bowlers beat the bat regularly, but the home side managed to negotiate the session without incident after resuming on their overnight score of 17 for one. 
There was little sign of the steep bounce from Friday that led to umpires Ian Gould and Aleem Dar suspending play 20 minutes from the close after Elgar was struck on the helmet, citing player welfare as a concern. 
At the time there were question-marks over whether the test would continue, but after a meeting between the umpires, match referee Andy Pycroft and team representatives, it was decided to play on. 
Both South Africa and India told reporters after the third days’ play that they were keen to see the match through to its conclusion. 
South Africa have an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series, and are seeking a first ever clean-sweep over India. (Reporting By Nick Said; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)