HENDERSON, Nev.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 3PEA International, Inc. (OTCQB: TPNL ), a vertically integrated provider of innovative prepaid card programs and processing services for corporate, consumer and government applications, is delighted to announce the addition of award-winning sales professional Mark Jacobs to its team. Jacobs is a veteran of the prepaid and incentives industry with over 18 years’ experience with achievements in revenue growth, market expansion and new product launches for his high-profile clients, including: AAA, Ace Cash, Alcon, Cox Communications, The Hershey Company, QuikTrip, Rent-A-Center and SBC Communications. Jacobs joins 3PEA from Hawk Incentives, a Blackhawk Network business where he was instrumental in the acquisition and launching of new prepaid incentive programs. Previous to that, Jacobs was National Sales Manager for epay, a Euronet Worldwide company, where he was recipient of the Hero Award in 2014. In his new role as Sales Director, Jacobs is responsible for expanding 3PEA International’s PaySign ® solution to new markets, including customer loyalty and rebates, employee recognition and engagement, and other corporate payment solutions.
“It is with great pleasure that we welcome Mark to the 3PEA team,” said Mark Newcomer, Chief Executive Officer, 3PEA International. “Mark comes to us with vast knowledge of prepaid and important leadership skills that will be of great value to our Company. He has a proven track record of delivering high revenue incentive card programs for a variety of industries. His ability to open new market verticals and create new revenue streams will prove invaluable as we continue to grow revenue in our existing verticals.”
About 3PEA International
3PEA International ( OTCQB:TPNL ) is an experienced and trusted prepaid debit card payment solutions provider as well as an integrated payment processor that has managed millions of prepaid debit cards in its portfolio. Through its PaySign brand, 3PEA conceptualizes, develops and manages payment solutions, prepaid card programs, and customized payment services. 3PEA’s corporate incentive prepaid cards are changing the way corporations reward, motivate, and engage their current and potential customers, employees, and agents. 3PEA’s customizable prepaid solutions offer significant cost savings while improving brand recognition and customer loyalty. 3PEA’s customers include healthcare companies, major pharmaceutical companies, large multinationals, prestigious universities, and social media companies. PaySign is a registered trademark of 3PEA Technologies, Inc. in the United States and other countries. For more information visit us at www.3pea.com or follow us on LinkedIn , Twitter and Facebook .
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this news release may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. All statements, other than statements of fact, included in this release, including, without limitation, statements regarding potential future plans and objectives of the companies, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, and actual results and future events could differ materially. 3PEA undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any statements in this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006224/en/
3PEA International, Inc.
Brian Polan, 1-702-749-7234
Chief Financial Officer
bpolan@3pea.com
www.3pea.com
Source: 3PEA International, Inc.