NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Coty Inc. (NYSE:COTY) will release fiscal 2018 second quarter financial results before the open of the U.S. equity markets on the morning of Thursday, February 8, 2018.
On that date, at 8:00 a.m. (ET), the Company will webcast live its conference call discussing the financial results, business outlook, and recent corporate developments. Camillo Pane, Chief Executive Officer, and Patrice de Talhouёt, Executive Vice President & Global Chief Financial Officer, will host the call.
Those wishing to access the webcast can do so at http://investors.coty.com . The webcast will also be archived on the website.
About Coty Inc.
Coty is one of the world’s largest beauty companies with approximately $9 billion in pro forma revenue, with a purpose to celebrate and liberate the diversity of consumers’ beauty. Its strong entrepreneurial heritage has created an iconic portfolio of leading beauty brands. Coty is the global leader in fragrance, a strong number two in professional salon hair color & styling, and number three in color cosmetics. Coty operates three divisions - Consumer Beauty, which is focused on mass color cosmetics, mass retail hair coloring and styling products, body care and mass fragrances with brands such as COVERGIRL, Max Factor and Rimmel; Luxury, which is focused on prestige fragrances and skincare with brands such as Calvin Klein, Marc Jacobs, Hugo Boss, Gucci and philosophy; and Professional Beauty, which is focused on servicing salon owners and professionals in both hair and nail, with brands such as Wella Professionals, Sebastian Professional, OPI and ghd. Coty has over 20,000 colleagues globally and its products are sold in over 150 countries. Coty and its brands are committed to a range of social causes as well as seeking to minimize its impact on the environment.
For additional information about Coty Inc., please visit www.coty.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006392/en/
Coty:
Investor Relations
Kevin Monaco, +1 212 389 6815
or
Media
Jennifer Friedman, +1 212 389 7175
Source: Coty Inc.