WYOMISSING, Pa., Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Customers Bancorp, Inc. (NYSE:CUBI), the parent company of Customers Bank (collectively, “Customers” or the “Company”), today announced that it will issue its earnings press release for the three months ending December 31, 2017 on Wednesday, January 24, 2018, after market hours. The Company will host a conference call at 9:00 PM ET on Thursday, January 25, 2018 to discuss its earnings results.
Date: Thursday, January 25, 2018
Time: 9:00 AM ET
US Dial-in: ++1 (800) 967-7154
International Dial-in: +1 (719) 457-1510
Participant Passcode: 874082
Please dial in at least 10 minutes before the start of the call to ensure timely participation. Slides accompanying the presentation will be available on the Company's website at http://customersbank.com/investor_relations.php prior to the call.
Please submit any questions you have regarding Customers' fourth quarter 2017 earnings in advance to rramsey@customersbank.com and the executives will address them on the call. The Company will also open the lines to questions following management’s presentation of the fourth quarter results. A playback of the call will be available beginning January 25, 2018 at 12:00 PM ET until 12:00 PM ET on February 24, 2018. To listen, call within the United States 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820 when calling internationally. Please use the replay pin number 7721739.
Institutional Background
Customers Bancorp, Inc. is a bank holding company located in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania engaged in banking and related business through its bank subsidiary, Customers Bank. Customers Bank is a community-based, full-service bank with assets of approximately $9.9 billion at December 31, 2017. A member of the Federal Reserve System with deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Customers Bank is an equal opportunity lender that provides a range of banking services to small and medium-sized businesses, professionals, individuals and families through offices in Pennsylvania, New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and New Jersey. Committed to fostering customer loyalty, Customers Bank uses a High Tech/High Touch strategy that includes use of industry-leading technology to provide customers better access to their money, as well as Concierge Banking® by appointment at customers’ homes or offices 12 hours a day, seven days a week. Customers Bank offers a continually expanding portfolio of loans to small businesses, multi-family projects, mortgage companies and consumers.
Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s voting common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CUBI. Additional information about Customers Bancorp, Inc. can be found on the Company’s website, www.customersbank.com .
“Safe Harbor” Statement
In addition to historical information, this press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements with respect to Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s strategies, goals, beliefs, expectations, estimates, intentions, capital raising efforts, financial condition and results of operations, future performance and business. Statements preceded by, followed by, or that include the words "may," "could," "should," "pro forma," "looking forward," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," or similar expressions generally indicate a forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which, in whole or in part, are beyond Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s control). Numerous competitive, economic, regulatory, legal and technological factors, among others, could cause Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s financial performance to differ materially from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. In addition, important factors the implementation of Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s strategy regarding BankMobile, the possibility of events, changes or other circumstances occurring or existing that could result in the planned spin-off and merger of BankMobile not being completed, the possibility that the planned spin-off and merger of BankMobile may be more expensive to complete than anticipated, the possibility that the expected benefits of the planned transactions to Customers and its shareholders may not be achieved, the possibility of Customers incurring liabilities relating to the disposition of BankMobile, or the possible effects on Customers’ results of operations if the planned spin-off and merger of BankMobile are not completed in a timely fashion or at all also could cause Customers Bancorp's actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. Customers Bancorp, Inc. cautions that the foregoing factors are not exclusive, and neither such factors nor any such forward-looking statement takes into account the impact of any future events. Further, Customers’ expectations with respect to the effects of the new tax law could be affected by future clarifications, amendments, and interpretations of such law. All forward-looking statements and information set forth herein are based on management's current beliefs and assumptions as of the date hereof and speak only as of the date they are made. For a more complete discussion of the assumptions, risks and uncertainties related to our business, you are encouraged to review Customers Bancorp, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that update or provide information in addition to the information included in the Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filings, if any. Customers Bancorp, Inc. does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by Customers Bancorp, Inc. or by or on behalf of Customers Bank.
Customers Bancorp
1015 Penn Avenue
Wyomissing, PA 19610
Contacts:
Jay Sidhu, Chairman & CEO 610-935-8693
Robert Wahlman, CFO 610-743-8074
Bob Ramsey, Director of Investor Relations and Strategic Planning 484-926-7118
Source:Customers Bancorp, Inc