Kelly Sullivan | Getty Images SHARES 
Self-made billionaire and serial entrepreneur Richard Branson's mother taught him from an early age that "life is too short to fear flying higher." 
With an adventurous mother who taught him to "never look back in regret," Branson grew up into a thrill seeker and leader of Virgin Group. 
"The world would be a better place if we all chased our dreams and fulfilled our potential," Branson wrote in a blog post . "I'm extremely fortunate that my parents always supported my outlandish dreams, even from a very young age." 
To spark inspiration and encourage people to look forward to each new day this year, Branson shared these top 10 quotes from activists, innovators and famous thought leaders: 10. Malala Yousafzai Christopher Furlong | Getty Images News | Getty Images Malala Yousafzai 
"Let us make our future now, and let us make our dreams tomorrow's reality." 9. Mark Twain UniversalImagesGroup | Getty Images Writer Mark Twain photographed in his old age 
"Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great." 8. Napoleon Hill 
"There are no limitations to the mind except those that we acknowledge." 7. Lao Tzu 
"The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step." 6. Winston Churchill Source: Central Press | Hulton Archive | Getty Images 
"Continuous effort, not strength nor intelligence, is the key to unlocking our potential." 5. Lady Gaga Frazer Harrison | Getty Images Singer Lady Gaga 
"I believe that if you have revolutionary potential, you must make the world a better place and use it." 4. Michelle Obama 
"Just try new things. Step out of your comfort zones and soar, all right?" 3. Beyoncé Marc Piasecki | Getty Images Beyonce and Jay Z celebrate their wedding anniversary on a romantic dinner at 'L'Avenue' restaurant on April 20, 2011 in Paris, France. 
"When I'm not feeling my best I ask myself, 'What are you gonna do about it?' I use the negativity to fuel the transformation into a better me." 2. Elon Musk 
"I think that's the single best piece of advice: constantly think about how you could be doing things better and questioning yourself." 1. Nelson Mandela Nelson Mandela served as president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999 
"It always seems impossible until it's done." 