SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- San Diego-based Clarify Medical ’s Home Light Therapy System, an FDA-cleared home-based treatment technology for vitiligo, is now available nationwide.
During a usage trial, vitiligo patients utilizing the lightweight home-based system experienced noticeable improvement (including re-pigmentation), some within as little as three weeks.
The Clarify System allows convenient home phototherapy linking patient, physician and Clarify CarePartner through Android and IOS smartphones and the Clarify Physician Portal. A small handheld device synced to the Clarify App on the patient’s phone guides patients through delivering brief doses of targeted narrowband Ultra Violet B (UVB) phototherapy precisely where it is needed, controlled by a physician’s prescription. The Company received clearance of the Clarify Systems by the FDA in May.
Narrowband UVB phototherapy has been shown to be effective for the treatment of vitiligo. It has also been shown to be effective in a number of chronic skin conditions, including psoriasis, eczema, seborrheic dermatitis and leukoderma on all skin types.
Narrowband UVB therapy is currently provided mainly in physicians’ offices or in phototherapy clinics. Clarify Medical’s technology takes that technology to the next level of patient convenience – making it easier to use, usable at home, and significantly less expensive.
With the Clarify Medical Home Light Therapy System, physicians can review each patient’s progress during office visits, including photographs of changes in skin condition, via the HIPAA-compliant Clarify Physician Portal.
“It’s already been established that UVB phototherapy works for vitiligo patients,” said James M. Sweeney, Clarify Medical’s CEO. “Our new home-based treatment technology eliminates the need for multiple weekly trips to the doctor’s office or clinic to receive therapy. Patients can instead deliver treatments themselves easily, where and when they want to – usually in the comfort of their own homes. This is a significant advancement for people living with vitiligo and other chronic skin conditions.”
Clarify CarePartners, highly trained clinical educators, are standing by to coach patients on the use of the system, monitor ongoing treatment and encourage treatment adherence.
Clarify’s system integrates the latest in NB-UVB therapy with the convenience of smartphone technology to improve patient quality of life and meet physician requirements.
Clarify Medical is a private San Diego-based medical device company focused on developing innovative technology, products and services that improve care for people with chronic skin conditions. Its Clarify Home Light Therapy System is now available nationally in the US. Learn more at www.clarifymed.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006121/en/
for Clarify Medical
Paul Williams, 310-569-0023
paul@medialinecommunications.com
Source: Clarify Medical