SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Cohesity, the leader in hyperconverged secondary storage , today announced the appointment of Lynn Lucas as its inaugural chief marketing officer (CMO). Lynn will oversee global marketing and continue to drive customer adoption and brand awareness as the company expands across the US and international markets. The appointment follows a breakthrough year of milestone Cohesity achievements , including a 600 percent year-over-year increase in revenue.
Lynn Lucas, CMO of Cohesity
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/49eafc69-569f-467e-9c0f-cfa5974a4f7d
“At Cohesity, we are dramatically simplifying how enterprise IT stores, manages, protects, and gains insights from their secondary data,” said Mohit Aron, chief executive officer and founder, Cohesity. “Adoption of our modern, web-scale hyperconverged secondary storage solution has passed the inflection point, and we have entered a new stage of high growth. Lynn brings a wealth of enterprise marketing experience that is key to fueling the next stage of our growth.”
Lynn brings more than 25 years of tech sector marketing experience. She most recently served as CMO for Veritas Technologies, where she led its new branding and successful repositioning as a multi-cloud data management company following the company’s separation from Symantec. Prior to Veritas, she held the CMO position at Good Technology. Previously she was VP of Collaboration Solutions Marketing for Cisco Systems.
Lynn will lead the global marketing team to drive customer experience, accelerate the adoption of Cohesity's solutions, and advocate for the hyperconverged secondary storage market, which has an estimated $60 billion total addressable market.
“In my conversations with customers around the globe, a universal message is that the unprecedented growth in data combined with the move to a multi-cloud approach is driving the need for a radical reimagining of today’s data center and storage architectures,” said Lynn Lucas, chief marketing officer, Cohesity. “As I looked at all the players, one stood out in their ability to solve these challenges. Cohesity has the vision and the disruptive innovation, and is executing to lead this new era. As we head into 2018, I look forward to sharing more of the Cohesity story, being a customer advocate, and expanding our impact.”
About Cohesity
Cohesity makes your data work for you by consolidating secondary storage silos onto a hyperconverged, web-scale data platform that spans both private and public clouds. Enterprise customers begin by radically streamlining their backup and data protection, then converge file and object services, test/dev instances, and analytic functions to provide a global data store. Cohesity counts many Global 1000 companies and federal agencies among its rapidly growing customer base and was named to Forbes’ “Next Billion-Dollar Startups 2017,” LinkedIn’s “Startups: The 50 Industry Disruptors You Need to Know Now,” and CRN’s “2017 Emerging Vendors in Storage” lists. For more information, visit our website www.cohesity.com and blog https://cohesity.com/blog/ , follow us on Twitter https://twitter.com/cohesity and LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/company/3750699/ and like us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/cohesity/ .
Media Contacts
Jenni Adair
Head of Corporate Communications
jenni@cohesity.com
650-400-1871
BOCA Communications for Cohesity
cohesity@bocacommunications.com
Source: Cohesity