Washington, DC,Jan. 11, 2018(GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --
Green Seal, Inc., the nation’s premier ecolabel, is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has appointed Doug Gatlin as Chief Executive Officer effective January 16, 2018.
“We are delighted to have someone with Doug’s experience and 25-year track record in sustainability take the helm of Green Seal at this important time,” said Green Seal Board Chair, Dr. Joanne Fox-Przeworski. She noted that Gatlin has played a pivotal role in the development of two of the most widely recognized voluntary environmental certification programs, namely the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) LEED and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR. “Doug’s personal passion and experience in the arena, along with his exceptional ability to translate vision and strategy into execution, make him the perfect choice to lead Green Seal at a time when companies increasingly value sustainable processes and products,” she added.
As Senior Vice President at USGBC, Gatlin led numerous initiatives to drive growth in the U.S. marketplace for its Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (LEED) program. After joining USGBC in 2006, Gatlin spearheaded USGBC's LEED for Existing Buildings Operations & Maintenance rating system and later went on to head overall service delivery for USGBC’s sister organization, the Green Building Certification Institute (GBCI). Previously, during a 10-year career at the U.S. EPA, he served as a Senior Advisor to the Deputy Associate Administrator for Intergovernmental Relations, focusing on regulatory innovation and environmental information. Prior to this, he led an ENERGY STAR Buildings team that built a national energy efficiency collaborative program with utilities and state energy offices.
"I am honored to join Green Seal at such a critical time in the environmental movement. As the premier ENGO leading the ecolabeling revolution, Green Seal has played a crucial role in helping buyers make informed choices that help protect human health and the environment, while saving money” said Gatlin. "I’m looking forward to working with the many leading companies and service providers whose offerings represent environmental leadership and can benefit from Green Seal certification. These are the true leaders of today’s environmental movement, and we need more of them,” he added.
ABOUT GREEN SEAL, INC.
Green Seal®, a nonprofit organization founded in 1989, is the nation's premier ecolabel, symbolizing transparency, integrity, and environmental leadership. Its flagship program develops life-cycle-based environmental standards, and certifies products and services that meet them. Green Seal standards cover 450 categories – from janitorial supplies, paints, and windows to hotels and restaurants – and are specified by countless agencies and institutions. Green Seal’s science-based programs empower choices and improvements that transform the economy for a healthier, greener world. visit GreenSeal.org , or call 202-872-6400. Connect with Green Seal on Facebook , Twitter , and LinkedIn .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/8542de76-3349-48a2-8ed0-f377fa0182b3
Kat Danaher Green Seal, Inc. 202.872.6400 kdanaher@greenseal.org
Source:Green Seal, Inc.