SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Homestead Capital USA LLC (“Homestead”), a private equity firm investing in operating farmland in the United States, announced today the appointment of Patrick Trainor as Vice President and Head of Acquisitions, and Kyle Jacobs as Vice President of Due Diligence.
“We are thrilled to welcome Patrick and Kyle to the Homestead team. Their proven track record in farming, farm management and farmland transactions will play a key role in further strengthening our team of professionals with deep agricultural and financial experience,” said Dan Little, a co-founder and portfolio manager at Homestead.
Trainor joins Homestead after serving as Executive Vice President and Head of Portfolio Management for Westchester Group Investment Management, Inc. (“Westchester”), a TIAA majority-owned subsidiary. In this role, he was responsible for overall portfolio construction, management and reporting for all client accounts and funds, while also participating on Westchester’s Global Investment Committee. Prior to taking over the portfolio management function he served as Westchester’s Director of Acquisitions for the US Row Crop business and the lead of the Midwest region.
Jacobs joins Homestead with more than 15 years of direct farming experience after helping grow his family farming business into a leading producer in the Mountain West region. In addition to his vast agricultural network, he brings a deep knowledge of a wide range of crops, including potatoes, barley, wheat, triticale, corn and alfalfa.
“Patrick and Kyle join at a pivotal time for Homestead as we continue to invest and manage our row and permanent crop farmland portfolio. Kyle’s background in production agriculture and Patrick’s broad transaction experience provide Homestead with the right combination of skills necessary to create long-term value for our investors,” said Gabe Santos, a co-founder and portfolio manager of Homestead.
Homestead currently has $575 million of assets under management and a portfolio of farms spanning 13 states producing 18 different crops.
ABOUT HOMESTEAD CAPITAL
Homestead Capital is a private equity firm investing in operating farmland across the Mountain West, Pacific, Midwest and Delta regions of the United States. Headquartered in San Francisco, California and with offices in Idaho, Iowa, Illinois and Arkansas, Homestead has a vertically integrated investment platform led by a team of professionals with deep agricultural and financial experience in investing, farm management, farm acquisition, portfolio construction and risk management. For more information, please visit the company website at http://www.homesteadcapital.com/ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006180/en/
Homestead Capital USA LLC
Aleah Dawson, 415-369-9918
Source: Homestead Capital USA LLC