BERLIN (Reuters) - German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel on Monday called his Turkish counterpart to express concerns about the possible humanitarian impact on civilians of an escalation in northwest Syria.
Both officials agreed that the Syrian political process should now be continued in an intensive manner, a ministry official said.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Monday said there would be “no stepping back” from a Turkish air and ground push across the border aimed at crushing U.S.-backed Kurdish YPG fighters who control Syria’s Afrin region.
Gabriel had been criticized by opposition lawmakers for failing to speak up earlier.
German concerns about Turkey’s advance - and its reported use of German-built tanks - could complicate an emerging rapprochement between the NATO allies that began when Gabriel and Cavusoglu met in Germany this month.
The two countries last week resumed bilateral government consultations, which had been suspended after Ankara’s arrest of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel in February 2017, although the Yucel case remains a major irritant.
Agnieszka Brugger, a Greens lawmaker, said the Turkish military operation demonstrated the devastating impact that German weapons sales could have overseas.
“An immediate halt to all arms exports to Turkey is long overdue,” she told the Heilbronner Stimme newspaper. “This intense situation should be a wake-up call for the German government.”
German officials on Monday confirmed that Turkey had purchased over 750 tanks from Germany in the 1980s, 1990s and late 2000s, but said it had no information about the use of the tanks in Syria aside from photographs circulating in the media.
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Adebahr declined comment on a report in the magazine Der Spiegel that Germany was moving toward approval of a Turkish request for the firm Rheinmetall to upgrade and modernize its Leopard tanks.
Gabriel had told reporters after meeting Cavusoglu that major arms sales to Turkey would remain off limits until Yucel’s case was resolved, but signaled that Berlin would review Ankara’s request to add protective gear to its existing tanks.
Turkey wants to reinforce the tanks against improvised explosive devices and mines, and is also seeking a sensor system to protect them against anti-tank projectiles.
Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by Kevin Liffey
 