CULLMAN, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Peoples Bank of Alabama (PBAL) is pleased to announce that James Barnett has joined the company as Regional Market President for Jefferson County. James is a seasoned banker, having served in key lending and credit roles with two national banks, both of which were headquartered in Birmingham. Most recently James served as the East Region Credit Officer at BBVA Compass, managing a sizeable credit portfolio of Commercial and Industrial, Correspondent Banking and Commercial Dealer Services clients. Barnett said, “I am excited to join Peoples Bank of Alabama and look forward to working alongside a talented team of veteran bankers, capitalizing on our experience and expertise to serve the needs of our clients. We offer the same products and services as larger banks with a commitment to accessibility and superior customer service. At Peoples Bank, we believe banking is personal.”
“We are excited to have someone of James’ caliber join the Peoples Bank of Alabama family and continue to lead our expansion efforts in Jefferson County,” said Chuck Herndon, Commercial Banking Executive. “James has a proven track record of business development and a shared vision of prioritizing community and serving people.”
Tim Williams, President, added, “Our success is founded upon hiring talented bankers, providing them with competitive products and services, and empowering them to deliver those solutions to our clients efficiently and with confidence. James is a great addition to our team and we look forward to his leadership as we continue to build upon our successes in Jefferson County.”
Peoples Bank of Alabama is a trusted community bank dedicated to serving families, individuals, workers, and businesses in North and Central Alabama. We are in the banking business because we believe in helping individuals with their financial well-being. Whether it’s a home loan to buy a couple’s first home, or a commercial loan to help a business expand, our passion is helping our neighbors achieve their dreams. That’s why we are the people’s bank – because we care about people. Visit our website at peoplesbankal.com and learn more about how you can save, grow, and invest with confidence. Peoples Bank of Alabama, where people come first. FDIC Insured and an Equal Housing Lender.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005049/en/
Peoples Bank of Alabama
Karen Webb, 256-737-7041
kwebb@peoplesbankal.com
Source: Peoples Bank of Alabama