Published: Jan 12, 2018 10:21 a.m. ET Share 
Document singled out Space Exploration Technologies for two features related to fueling practices and internal tank structures of its Falcon 9 rockets Getty Images Boeing has told NASA it expects to launch its first crewed test flight in November, though company officials previously indicated that could slip to 2019. Hours before the safety report was posted on NASA’s website, the agency revealed that SpaceX’s initial manned flight has been pushed back to December from the summer. 
By Andy Pasztor 
NASA’s plan to routinely ferry astronauts into orbit using private spacecraft—initially slated to start last year—has now slipped until at least the spring of 2019 and unresolved hazards threaten further delays. 
New questions about the high-profile program, known as commercial crew transportation, emerged Thursday, with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s top outside safety panel raising red flags about persistent dangers. Under the program, NASA would rely on capsules developed and operated on a commercial basis by Boeing Co. BA, +1.87% and Tesla CEO TSLA, +0.15% Elon Musk’s SpaceX. 
Potential threats identified in the group’s annual report range from unconventional rocket fuel systems to anticipated bombardment in orbit by tiny meteor fragments and other space debris. 
NASA has stipulated a statistical limit of no more than one possible fatal accident per 270 flights. SpaceX and Boeing are developing separate fleets of capsules but neither is likely to meet that longstanding safety standard, despite years of testing, re-engineering and high-level government concern about what are called micrometeoroids, according to the report. 
Even with the extra safeguard of mandated on-orbit inspections to detect collision damage, the independent watchdogs concluded “the likelihood remains that the providers will not meet all” of the previously agreed-to requirements. NASA managers will then have to determine if the statistical risk—including significant analytical uncertainties—is acceptable, according to the panel.