FORT WORTH, Texas, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Higginbotham and Independent Insurance Agents of Plainview (IIAP) announced today the merger of their operations. Higginbotham is headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, and has become the largest insurance broker based in the state by uniting with agencies that add geographic scale and service capacity to its operation. The partnership with IIAP in Plainview, Texas, takes Higginbotham the furthest northwest of its 27 offices.
Higginbotham and IIAP are independent insurance firms providing property and liability insurance, life and health insurance, risk management and employee benefit services to businesses and individuals. IIAP's nine employees brings Higginbotham's workforce to 940.
IIAP traces back to 1958 when Joe Morgan and Bill Eaves started Morgan-Eaves Agency in Plainview. It changed hands to Lena Faye Hill and Mark Warren, who managed the business until 2007 when Warren purchased the agency. In 2009, Tyke Dipprey partnered with Warren and his wife Freada to form IIAP.
"We're steadily expanding our footprint by bringing in partners because we believe that customers want to do business with local companies," said Higginbotham Chairman/CEO Rusty Reid. "Growing through partnerships allows us to offer our single source solution for insurance in more markets while staying local. IIAP is primed to grow with us in Plainview."
In a joint statement, Warren and Dipprey said, "We've been approached with other merger opportunities, but none offered our customers a better experience. We're as enthusiastic about tapping into Higginbotham's internal risk management and employee benefit expertise to enhance our service to Plainview as they are to expand their presence in West Texas."
Warren and Dipprey will continue operating as IIAP with existing staff at 716 Broadway where it has resided since 1975.
About Independent Insurance Agents of Plainview
Independent Insurance Agents of Plainview (IIAP) is an independent insurance firm that brokers commercial and personal insurance, bonds, life insurance, individual and group health insurance and retirement plans from highly-rated carriers. The firm opened in 1958 in Plainview, Texas, and it serves more than 2,000 clients with concentration in the farm and agriculture markets. Visit www.iiaptx.com for more information.
About Higginbotham
Higginbotham is a single source for insurance and financial services that brokers business insurance, employee benefits, retirement plans, executive benefits, life insurance and home/auto insurance from more than 250 regional and national carriers. It supplements coverage with in-house risk management and benefit plan administration services. The firm was founded in 1948 and is headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, with 26 additional offices serving domestic and international customers. Higginbotham ranks by revenue as the nation's 27 th largest independent insurance brokerage firm, making it the largest Texas-based broker (Business Insurance, July 2017). Visit www.higginbotham.net for more information.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/higginbotham-enters-24th-texas-market-with-independent-insurance-agents-of-plainview-300579362.html
SOURCE Higginbotham