MIAMI, Jan. 12, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Watsco, Inc. (NYSE:WSO) announced today that it will host a conference call to discuss its 2017 fourth quarter and annual earnings results on Thursday, February 8, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. (ET). Prepared remarks regarding the financial and operational results will be followed by a question and answer session with Watsco’s senior management team.
The conference call will be web-cast by CCBN's StreetEvents and can be found under the link highlighted on our website at http://www.watsco.com . The earnings results will be released before the market opens on February 8, 2018. A replay of the conference call will be available on our website.
Investors and analysts are encouraged to pre-register for the conference call by using the link below. Participants who pre-register will be given a unique PIN to gain immediate access to the call. Pre-registration may be completed at any time up to the call start time.
To pre-register, go to:
http://dpregister.com/10115764
Participants that would like to join the conference call, but have not pre-registered, can do so by dialing (844) 883-3908 within the United States or (412) 317-9254 internationally and asking for the “Watsco, Inc” call. Please call five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time as the number of telephone connections is limited.
Watsco provides comfort to homes and businesses regardless of the outdoor climate. There are approximately 92 million central air conditioning and heating systems installed in the United States that have been in service more than 10 years. Older systems often operate below today’s government mandated energy efficiency and environmental standards. Watsco has an opportunity to accelerate the replacement of these systems at a scale greater than its competitors as the movement toward reducing energy consumption and its environmental impact continues. This is especially important since heating and cooling accounts for approximately half of the energy consumed in a typical U.S. home.
Watsco’s traditional sales channel is the industry’s largest and currently serves 88,000 contractor businesses through 562 locations in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, and on an export basis to Latin America and the Caribbean. Watsco is a technology company, operating scalable platforms for mobile apps, e-commerce, business intelligence and supply chain. Strategic goals are to accelerate sales and profit growth, increase the speed and convenience of serving customers and to extend its reach into new geographies and sales channels. Watsco is also developing technologies to address the evolving buying habits of consumers in the digital economy. Over the long-term, Watsco believes its focus, scale and innovative culture offer significant advantages to address the consumer market, which is estimated to be $88 billion annually. Additional information about Watsco may be found at http://www.watsco.com .
Barry S. Logan
Senior Vice President
(305) 714-4102
e-mail: blogan@watsco.com
Source:Watsco, Inc.