CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- DiMeo Schneider & Associates, L.L.C. (DiMeo Schneider), a nationwide investment consulting firm, announces the promotion of two firm Associates to Principals. Effective immediately, Associate Director of Institutional Consulting, Jessica Ludwig and Research Director, Brad Long, CFA, become the firm’s twelfth and thirteenth Principals.
Jessica joined DiMeo Schneider in 2006 and maintains oversight for the firm’s institutional co-consultants and associates and services institutional clients by providing advice and counsel on all areas of fund oversight, investment policy, asset allocation, manager research and selection, portfolio structure, performance monitoring and overall investment management.
Brad joined DiMeo Schneider in 2012 and directs the firm’s Global Public Markets Group overseeing investment research across global equity, global fixed income and global real assets. He is a member of the firm’s Investment Committee, Discretionary Committee and all Research Teams. Brad also leads the firm’s efforts in mission-aligned investing across both public and private markets as well as chairs the firm’s Target Date Committee.
“We’re exceptionally pleased to appoint Jessica and Brad to the partnership. In addition to both being incredibly talented professionals, they’re simply good people that you like to associate with,” says Managing Director, Bob DiMeo.
DiMeo Schneider advises hundreds of retirement plans, nonprofits, private clients and financial institutions in 40 states. It has over $73 billion in assets under advisement as of September 30, 2017. DiMeo Schneider is headquartered in Chicago with additional offices in Austin and Washington, DC.
DiMeo Schneider is recognized as a top 40 worldwide investment consulting firm by assets under advisement by Pensions & Investments for the past eight years. The firm ranks as a “Top 20 RIA Financial Advisor” by Financial Advisor based on 2016 year-end assets under management.
About DiMeo Schneider & Associates, L.L.C.
Founded in 1995, DiMeo Schneider & Associates, L.L.C. is dedicated to investment consulting. The firm’s core mission is to provide strategic, client-centric investment consulting services to retirement plans, nonprofit organizations and private clients. Investment consulting is our business. As a nationwide firm, our main goal is to provide unbiased advice that addresses clients’ unique concerns, obligations and goals.
Learn more by clicking here: dimeoschneider.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005124/en/
DiMeo Schneider & Associates, L.L.C.
Jenna Friedman, Marketing Manager
312-853-1000 x 4149
jfriedman@dimeoschneider.com
Source: DiMeo Schneider & Associates, L.L.C.