NEW YORK, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hunt Mortgage Group , a leader in financing commercial real estate throughout the United States, announced today it has provided a $5.88 million Fannie Mae loan to finance the acquisition of a multifamily property located in Anderson, South Carolina. The financing was arranged by Aline Capital LLC, which is based in Greenville, South Carolina.
The sponsor utilized the Fannie Mae Green Rewards program to acquire Huntington Apartments, a 152-unit multifamily property. "The sponsor is a seasoned commercial real estate investor that is also a repeat Hunt Mortgage Group customer," noted Keith Morris, Vice President in the Atlanta office of Hunt Mortgage Group. "They intend to upgrade the unit interiors as well as make energy efficient repairs that will lower expenses for both the tenant and landlord."
Anderson, South Carolina is located within the Greenville-Anderson-Mauldin, South Carolina MSA. Surrounding land uses include a combination of industrial, single family homes and multifamily properties.
About Hunt Mortgage Group
Hunt Mortgage Group , a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunt Companies, Inc., is a leader in financing commercial real estate throughout the United States. The Company finances all types of commercial real estate: multifamily properties (including small balance), affordable housing, office, retail, manufactured housing, healthcare/senior living, industrial, and self-storage facilities. It offers Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, HUD/FHA in addition to its own Proprietary loan products. Since inception, the Company has structured more than $21 billion of loans and today maintains a servicing portfolio of more than $13.4 billion. Headquartered in New York City, Hunt Mortgage Group has 232 professionals in 25 locations throughout the United States. To learn more, visit www.huntmortgagegroup.com .
MEDIA CONTACTS
Brent Feigenbaum
Hunt Mortgage Group
212-317-5730
Brent.Feigenbaum@huntcompanies.com
Pam Flores
773-218-9260
pamflo@ameritech.net
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hunt-mortgage-group-finances-the-acquisition-of-a-multifamily-property-located-in-anderson-south-carolina-300588103.html
SOURCE Hunt Mortgage Group