LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- An affiliate of CriticalPoint Capital, LLC ("CPC"), a private investment firm, announced today that it has completed the acquisition of the U.S. Power and Industrial Engineering Services Division (the "Company") from Altran U.S. Corp ("Altran"). The Company also announced the launch of its new brand identity as Imperia Engineering Partners ("Imperia").
Imperia is a leading provider of engineering, design and construction management services to the utilities, nuclear and energy industries. The Company is a project delivery organization with significant expertise in the mechanical, electrical, instrumentation and control, civil and structural engineering disciplines. The Company employs a highly skilled workforce with an average tenure of over 20 years in their respective engineering specialties.
"The newly rebranded Imperia Engineering Partners will stand for excellence in engineering, design and construction management. Our employee base is energized by this transaction and committed to providing world class engineering solutions for our customers," said Bob Alder, President of Imperia. "Our Company has prepared for this transaction over the last year and we are mobilized to continue delivering results for all of Imperia's constituents," stated Scot Blodgett, VP of Engineering.
In partnership with management, CriticalPoint will support Imperia's carve out from Altran with a focus on supporting and improving our customers' mission critical energy infrastructure in the United States and Canada.
"The deep technical expertise and long-term customer relationships are what impressed us the most about Imperia," commented Brad Holtmeier, Partner of CPC. "The management team's commitment to excellence and attention to detail will allow Imperia to thrive as a platform company. We are prepared to grow through the continued recruitment of experienced employees and through potential add-on acquisitions."
About CriticalPoint Capital:
Founded in 2012, CriticalPoint Capital is a private investment firm based in Manhattan Beach, CA. The firm is focused on acquiring companies with long-term value creation opportunities and with management teams that can benefit from patient capital and a thoughtful approach to growth. CPC's preferred investments are corporate divestitures, companies in a state of transition, and special situations.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/criticalpoint-capital-acquires-the-us-power-and-industrial-engineering-services-division-from-altran-us-corp-and-rebrands-as-imperia-engineering-partners-300578467.html
SOURCE CriticalPoint Capital, LLC