TINLEY PARK, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- PANDUIT Corp. today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Dennis Renaud as CEO, effective January 23, 2018. Tom Donovan will retire from the role of CEO and support the transition in an advisory capacity.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006256/en/
Dennis Renaud is named new Panduit CEO. (Photo: Business Wire)
Andrew Caveney, Executive Chair said, “Panduit is well positioned for growth, thanks to our exceptional leadership team, employees and channel partner community. I’d like to thank Tom for his contribution to the success of the company and its culture. Tom’s vision, integrity, work ethic, and commitment to Panduit and our employees is without equal.”
“I’m looking forward to working with Dennis to shape business strategy and innovation,” said Caveney. “Dennis is well qualified to champion our extraordinary culture with an ability to inspire and connect with others. The Board is confident that Dennis will continue our tradition of customer focus, innovation, and quality.”
Renaud is entering the role of CEO after leading the company’s Enterprise Business. “I’m incredibly honored to serve as Panduit’s CEO,” said Dennis Renaud, CEO, Panduit. “Panduit is a special company. With our customer-first approach, talented workforce, and broad product portfolio, the opportunity ahead of us is tremendous.”
According to Don Mrozek, Panduit Director, “The Board is extremely enthusiastic about this appointment. Andrew’s role as Executive Chairman continues our legacy of family business leadership, while Dennis is ideally suited to lead the Company forward as CEO. He has 30 years of experience in the electrical and communications industry and a proven track record of success. Andrew and Dennis are committed to growing Panduit for the benefit of its employees, business partners, shareholders, and the communities in which it operates.”
Renaud has excelled at leadership roles in his career in sales, marketing, engineering, product management, and business unit leadership and has lived in both the United States and Japan. Dennis holds a Bachelor’s of Science in Chemical Engineering from Penn State and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Babson College.
About Panduit
Since 1955, Panduit’s culture of curiosity and passion for problem solving have enabled more meaningful connections between companies’ business goals and their marketplace success. Panduit creates leading-edge physical, electrical, and network infrastructure solutions for enterprise-wide environments, from the data center to the telecom room, from the desktop to the plant floor. Headquartered in Tinley Park, Ill., USA and operating in 112 global locations, Panduit’s proven reputation for quality and technology leadership, coupled with a robust partner ecosystem , help support, sustain, and empower business growth in a connected world. For more information, visit www.panduit.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006256/en/
Panduit Corp.
Chad Reynolds, Vice President of Marketing
708-532-1800
Chad.Reynolds@panduit.com
Source: Panduit Corp.