SUNRISE, Fla., Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MDLIVE today announced the appointment of Rich Berner as Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2018. Rich joins MDLIVE to accelerate growth on the heels of MDLIVE’s successful year in 2017, where its membership more than doubled to nearly 25 million members, with a 43% increase in visits on MDLIVE’s next generation, cloud-based, highly configurable technology platform.
“As we look to 2018 and the extreme growth potential for virtual care, we are excited for the appointment of Rich Berner as MDLIVE’s new CEO,” said John Sculley, Vice Chairman of the Board at MDLIVE. “Rich’s expertise leading large-scale businesses, coupled with his deep healthcare and technology background, make him uniquely-positioned to help MDLIVE and its clients become the highest quality and largest provider of virtual health management and care. I have spent a lot of time with Rich over the past month. Rich is exactly the high energy, hands-on CEO MDLIVE needs to build on our year-over-year success and take us to the next level.”
Berner brings over 20 years experience building award winning teams and products across a variety of business to business and business to consumer industries that have helped his clients leapfrog their competition resulting in significant top-line growth for his companies while also maximizing operating earnings in established and emerging markets. He has spent the last 13 years in healthcare focused on helping governments and providers around the world and utilize technology to improve the health of the populations they manage while reducing costs. Most recently, Berner joins MDLIVE from Allscripts where he served in various executive roles including President, International & Acute and SVP Health Systems and Hospitals. Most recently Rich was responsible for the worldwide solution strategy for Allscripts’ health systems and population health business, which generates over $1B in revenue. Under Rich’s leadership, Allscripts’ client satisfaction grew by more than 15% and Sunrise EMR was named the KLAS #1 Global EMR and the #1 EMR for Academic Medical Centers and Large hospitals by Black Book. He also previously served as Senior Vice President at Caradigm, a Microsoft/GE joint venture, and Cerner Corporation where he led a number of Cerner’s agile business units and launched emerging businesses. He also led Cerner’s Middle East and Africa operations from Dubai and served as Vice President and General Manager for Cerner’s academic and children’s hospital clients.
Berner sees a very bright future for MDLIVE. “We cannot make the transformation we need to make in healthcare without virtualizing more of the health management and care we provide while improving the consumers’ experience and outcomes,” said Berner. “I am committed to helping our clients and our clinicians improve the quality of life and healthcare experience of the populations we manage through the innovative use of technology to provide proactive, predictive, cost effective virtual health management and care on the consumers’ terms.”
Berner graduated as an Evans Scholar from the University of Illinois with a Bachelor of Science in Teaching of Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics.
About MDLIVE
Founded in 2009, MDLIVE is a visionary and pioneer in the digital delivery of high-quality, convenient, cost-efficient virtual care for medical and behavioral health conditions. The company provides consumers, health plans, health systems and self-insured employers with 24/7/365 access to its network of board-certified doctors and licensed therapists via secure online video, and phone through the MDLIVE service and technology platform. Registered users can receive a virtual consultation through the company’s HIPAA and PHI-compliant secure, cloud-based platform from home or on the go. To learn more about how MDLIVE is using telehealth innovations to improve the delivery of healthcare, visit www.MDLIVE.com .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/53c708af-1549-407c-95db-44a0251dc8fd
Michelle Rider MDLIVE INC 954-446-0507 media@mdlive.com
Source: MDLIVE INC