Company Plans to Enhance the Mobile Servicing Experience for Travel
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- American Express (NYSE:AXP) today announced it has acquired Mezi www.mezi.com , a personal travel assistant app that helps consumers plan and book trips. The Mezi app allows travelers to simply message their requests for flights, hotel or restaurant reservations, and Mezi provides recommendations and makes travel arrangements at the customer’s request. Founded in 2015, Mezi uses artificial intelligence (AI) and human expertise to personalize the online travel discovery and booking experience. By learning travelers’ preferences and understanding the way customers make requests using natural language, Mezi gets smarter and more efficient over time.
“Mezi’s AI-powered experience opens up exciting new ways for us to connect with and serve our Card Members and creates opportunities for us to build more meaningful relationships with them,” said Phil Norman, Vice President of American Express Digital Labs. “With messaging emerging as channel of choice for many, and the demand for unique experiences increasing, we believe the combination of Mezi’s capabilities with our global network of expert travel counselors creates a differentiated, high-touch service experience for our Card Members.”
The acquisition of Mezi follows an investment made in 2016 by American Express Ventures, the strategic investment arm of American Express, as well as a successful pilot with American Express Card Members. For those currently already enrolled in the AskAmex pilot, it will continue to run through the first half of 2018.
“American Express has always been synonymous with superior service and we couldn’t be more thrilled to join the company,” said Swapnil Shinde, Co-Founder and CEO, Mezi.
Going forward, Mezi will operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of American Express and will continue to develop its core technologies and enhance its capabilities in digital travel concierge services. “We’ve built Mezi to become better with each and every interaction and based on the success of our pilot with American Express, we are excited to bring Mezi’s mobile capabilities to more Card Members,” said Snehal Shinde, Co-Founder and CTO, Mezi. The company’s co-founders will continue to lead Mezi, and will report to Phil Norman, Vice President, Amex Digital Labs, Global Consumer Services Group at American Express.
“I’m excited to welcome Mezi’s talented team to American Express. Together, we will continue to innovate mobile travel and concierge experiences for our customers,” added Mr. Norman.
About American Express
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Learn more at americanexpress.com , and connect with us on facebook.com/americanexpress , instagram.com/americanexpress , linkedin.com/company/american-express , twitter.com/americanexpress , and youtube.com/americanexpress .
Key links to products, services and corporate responsibility information: charge and credit cards , business credit cards , Plenti rewards program , travel services , gift cards , prepaid cards , merchant services , Accertify , corporate card , business travel , and corporate responsibility .
Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes forward-looking statements that reflect management’s expectations about future events, including expectations regarding the company’s operating plans and performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. The words “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. American Express undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the underlying assumptions related to the transaction proving to be inaccurate or unrealized. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in American Express’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and its other reports filed with the SEC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005132/en/
American Express
Elizabeth Crosta, 212-640-6557
Elizabeth.Crosta@aexp.com
Source: American Express