NEW YORK, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Milost Global Inc. (“Milost”) announced today that Solly S. Asibey will become its Chief Investment Officer on February 1, 2018, following the retirement of Dr. James S. Kuo last year. He will report to Milost’s new Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kim Freeman and will be based in New York City.
Mr. Asibey is currently Senior Partner & President of Milost Global Africa operations. Milost is currently searching for his replacement, someone that will fill his current position as President of Africa operations at Milost.
Commenting on the CIO changes, Mandla J. Gwadiso said: “The fact that we are able to fill this role from within demonstrates the high quality of talent here at Milost. Jim has been a valuable asset to me and while we will certainly miss his astute advice and wish him all the best in his well-deserved endeavours, we are pleased that Solly is willing and able to step into the CIO role. We are confident that with his extensive experience Solly will transition smoothly into the role and provide strategic investment insight and guidance to our Leadership Team.”
Egerton Forster, Senior Partner & Chairman of the Milost Board of Directors, also stated, “I am confident that Solly will make a good CIO. Not only is he equipped with practical knowledge, but with wisdom as well. A substantial concern lacking synergy has already been avoided with Solly being a current member of Milost management team. All and all, he will hit the ground running and will be very productive.”
Solly S. Asibey, also commented on his promotion, “Milost is an aggressive PE firm with lots of growth potential, and I am honoured to be part of the dynamic team that has been mandated to move it to the next level.”
About Milost Global Inc.
Milost Global Inc. is an American Private Equity firm that is headquartered in New York City, with more than $25 billion in committed capital. Milost is at the intersection of creative investing and value creation. Milost is also a provider of alternative capital, mezzanine finance, and alternative lending to a broad range of industries across the globe including Technology, Transport, Cannabis, Education, Distribution, Mining, Oil & Gas, Financial Services, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Real Estate, Alternative Energy and Infrastructure Development. www.milostglobal.com
Milost Global Inc.
info@milostglobal.com
www.milostglobal.com
+1 212 918 4792 t
+1 212 225 8246 f
48 Wall St., 11th Floor
New York, NY 10005, USA
Source:Milost Global Inc