LUBBOCK, Texas, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Simmons Pump LLC (Simmons) and Simflo Pumps Inc. (Simflo), two of the nation's top providers of industrial, agriculture, and municipal-use pumps, have merged. Effective today, the two companies will combine business operations throughout Q1 2018. The combined company will be privately held and operate under the SIMFLO name and brand.
David Pickering, Jay Pickering, Don Pickering, and Gene Alexander (currently of Simmons) have been named executive officers of the new SIMFLO. The headquarters for the new company will be located in Lubbock, Texas, although SIMFLO will still have significant office presences in Willcox, Arizona (Simflo's former headquarters) and in Garden City, Kansas.
All 120 employees of Simmons and Simflo have been retained. In addition, SIMFLO anticipates increasing its workforce by 10 percent this year alone and has plans of opening new locations in other U.S. markets in the near future.
"We are thrilled to join forces and merge with our highly regarded peer, Simmons Pump," said Bob Denton, senior project manager at Simflo. "With Simflo's renowned engineers, R&D labs and testing facilities, combined with the leadership of Simmons' highly successful management team and industry-leading pump technologies, we are bullish in our ability to seize the green field opportunity ahead and become the market leader in our segment."
The combined SIMFLO company will engineer, manufacture, source, and deliver best-in-class pump products and technologies for major industrial users, including municipal water services, agriculture, manufacturing, mining, chemicals, hydrocarbons, and saltwater extraction. The company's offerings will remain American-made and manufactured.
"The combination of Simmons and Simflo is a highly strategic, value-enhancing step that brings together the unique strengths of two great companies to deliver best-in-class pump technologies and services to our customers across the U.S.," said Troy Pickering, vice president of sales and marketing at Simmons. "We are a company built on not just quality, but principle. Our founder, Raymond Pickering, believed that each product we produce should be made state-side by American workers with the utmost attention to detail – and that holds true today. From our involvement with the foundries, to our manufacturing and assembly facilities, virtually every aspect of a SIMFLO pump is created in-house to provide the highest level of performance in the industry. Simply put, the new SIMFLO exists to 'keep business flowing'."
ABOUT SIMFLO
Lubbock, Texas-based SIMFLO exists to "keep business flowing." The company engineers, manufactures, sources, and delivers custom-built pumps, parts, and pump design/overhaul/rebuild services for major industrial users, including municipal water services, agriculture, manufacturing, mining, chemicals, hydrocarbons, and saltwater extraction. For more information, visit www.SIMFLO.com .
Media Contact:
Claire Armstrong; 817-546-8322
cba@pavlovagency.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/simmons-pump-acquires-simflo-pumps-to-create-new-combined-company-300581538.html
SOURCE SIMFLO