CARLSBAD, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Viasat Inc . (NASDAQ: VSAT), a global communications company, today announced the appointment of Sean Pak to its Board of Directors. Mr. Pak will serve as a Class II director effective immediately, with an initial term expiring at the Company's 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. With the appointment of Mr. Pak, the Viasat Board now consists of 10 members, eight of whom are independent directors.
Mr. Pak has been a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP since 2009, and he currently serves as the Co-Chair of its National Intellectual Property Litigation Practice. Mr. Pak provides Viasat's Board with significant expertise in intellectual property development, strategy and enforcement, along with technological and engineering expertise in satellite systems, electrical engineering and computer science. From 2002 to 2009, Mr. Pak was an attorney at Latham & Watkins LLP, and previously worked in engineering roles at Intel Corporation and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
"Sean brings a powerful blend of legal, technology, international business, communications and leadership skills," said Mark Dankberg, chairman and CEO of Viasat. "We are very pleased to have him join our board and add his unique perspectives as we scale our business both here in the U.S. and globally."
Mr. Pak received a J.D. degree (cum laude) from Harvard Law School, and B.S. and M. Eng. degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT.
About Viasat
Viasat is a global communications company that believes everyone and everything in the world can be connected. For more than 30 years, Viasat has helped shape how consumers, businesses, governments and militaries around the world communicate. Today, the Company is developing the ultimate global communications network to power high-quality, secure, affordable, fast connections to impact people's lives anywhere they are—on the ground, in the air or at sea. To learn more about Viasat, visit: www.viasat.com , go to Viasat's Corporate Blog , or follow the Company on social media at: Facebook , Instagram , LinkedIn , Twitter or YouTube .
Copyright © 2018 Viasat, Inc. All rights reserved. Viasat is a registered trademark of Viasat, Inc. The Viasat logo is a trademark of Viasat, Inc. All other product or company names mentioned are used for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/viasat-appoints-sean-pak-to-board-of-directors-300581471.html
SOURCE Viasat, Inc.