CLEVELAND, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Highly accomplished attorney Colette Gibbons has joined the Cleveland office of McDonald Hopkins LLC, a business advisory and advocacy law firm, as Of Counsel in the Business Restructuring Services Department. She comes to McDonald Hopkins from Ice Miller, and its predecessor Schottenstein, Zox & Dunn, where she served as the managing partner for over 15 years of the Cleveland offices of those firms.
Gibbons has over 40 years of legal experience with a practice focus on insolvency related issues, including debtor representation, debtors-in-possession, creditors, lending institutions, hedge funds, trustees, receivers, creditors' committees, non-profit entities and health care providers in all aspects of state and federal insolvency proceedings and out-of-court resolutions.
"We are very excited to add to the firm such a distinguished and highly recognized attorney like Colette. She brings to McDonald Hopkins a wide spectrum of legal knowledge, experiences and capabilities that will assist our clients with their insolvency related needs," said Sean D. Malloy, chair of the Business Restructuring Services Department.
Throughout her distinguished career, Gibbons has received numerous recognitions including a Top 100 Super Lawyers in Ohio and Top 50 Women Super Lawyers, Chambers USA America's Leading Lawyers for Business-Bankruptcy, the Best Lawyers in America, Bankruptcy and Creditor-Debtor Rights Law/Insolvency and Reorganization Law and Northern Ohio Live Rainmaker of the Year for Law.
Gibbons earned her J.D., cum laude, from Cleveland-Marshall School of Law in 1976 and received a B.A., cum laude, from John Carroll University in 1973. She is also a Fellow of the American College of Bankruptcy, an honor held by fewer than 20 people in Ohio.
Gibbons can be reached at cgibbons@mcdonaldhopkins.com or 216.430.2057.
About McDonald Hopkins
Founded in 1930, McDonald Hopkins is a business advisory and advocacy law firm with locations in Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Miami, and West Palm Beach. With more than 50 service and industry teams, the firm has the expertise and knowledge to meet the growing number of legal and business challenges our clients face. For more information about McDonald Hopkins, visit mcdonaldhopkins.com .
CONTACT:
Deborah W. Kelm
McDonald Hopkins LLC
600 Superior Avenue, East, Suite 2100
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Phone: 216.348.5733
Email: dkelm@mcdonaldhopkins.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/prominent-business-restructuring-attorney-colette-gibbons-joins-mcdonald-hopkins-300585248.html
SOURCE McDonald Hopkins