NEW YORK, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Karbone Inc., leading financial services firm that caters to power generation and energy markets, today announced that it has acquired Watts Capital, LLC a New York-based investment bank and broker dealer specializing in capital raising and strategic advisory for leading companies in the technology, clean tech and broader energy sectors.
"Acquiring Watts Capital and its team of industry veterans is key to our growth strategy and has immediately broadened our Capital Advisory project/company pipeline and investor universe," said Rich Weihe, A Managing Partner and Head of Karbone's Capital Advisory division. "We've been very successful running sell-side asset mandates and various capital raises across the renewable/conventional spectrum and these new capabilities allow us to source previously untapped pockets of funding."
"We are pleased to strengthen our alliance with Karbone," said Thomas Watts, Watts Capital's CEO. "We look forward to combining our resources to better serve the business opportunities in the North American energy markets."
Karbone's Founder and CEO, Izzet Bensusan, said, "The acquisition of Watts Capital expands our coverage in our Capital Advisory division and broadens our service platform across technologies, assets, and investor bases. Our vision continues to build a company that provides integrated services under one roof: Brokerage, Investment Banking, and Research with the goal of empowering our clients to execute on their business plans. This year we will continue to service solar, wind, biomass, carbon, and storage among other emerging products/technologies from our various offices.
About Karbone:
Karbone Inc. is a fully integrated financial services firm that specializes in renewable/conventional power generation and North American energy markets. The firm houses key strengths in Capital Advisory, Brokerage, and Research services. Over the past decade, Karbone has successfully helped its clients secure long-term revenue contracts, funding sources, and key analytical information to help them achieve their investment and trading goals. Karbone currently counts leading energy developers, large utilities, private equity investors and banks as its clients. Since its inception, the firm and its employees have been ranked first among its competitors by renowned trade publications.
Prior to this transaction, Watts Capital, LLC was the broker dealer affiliate of the Watts Capital Group, LLC, a financial services firm focused on wealth management, investment management, and private equity. The firm's wealth management group, which is an SEC-registered investment adviser, serves high net worth and ultra high net worth families with comprehensive financial planning and investment management. The firm's investment management group offers absolute return strategies to individual and institutional clients. The firm's private equity group emphasizes control investments in the technology, healthcare and environmental sectors.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/karbone-expands-capital-advisory-business-with-acquisition-of-watts-capital-300586007.html
SOURCE Karbone