Yanni Gourde’s wrister at 1:45 of overtime Tuesday night led the Tampa Bay Lightning to a 4-3 win over the Nashville Predators at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tenn.
Gourde’s 16th goal gave Tampa Bay its 33rd win and an NHL-high 69 points while spoiling the Predators’ hopes of sweeping a five-game homestand.
Steven Stamkos forced overtime by scoring his 18th goal at 17:49 of the third period, taking a pass from Slater Koekkoek and beating Nashville goalie Juuse Saros on a slap shot.
Louis Domingue got the win in net for the Lightning with 30 saves, while Saros stopped 27 shots in the losing cause.
Tampa Bay and Nashville traditionally play entertaining games heavy on skating and scoring chances. The first period fit that bill as the teams scored four goals in a span of 4:24.
The Lightning’s Chris Kunitz opened the scoring at 6:24 with his seventh goal of the season and his second in as many nights. He intercepted an ill-advised Viktor Arvidsson breakout pass near the slot at the edge of the right circle and wired a wrister past Saros’ blocker.
The lead lasted only 64 seconds. With Tampa Bay’s Cedric Paquette in the box for hooking Kyle Turris, Ryan Ellis equalized with a booming slapper off Roman Josi’s feed, beating Domingue to the stick side for his third goal in only eight games.
At 9:11, Arvidsson got redemption for his mistake, finishing off a two-on-one rush with his 14th goal as he potted the rebound of Pontus Aberg’s shot. The play was originally ruled a save by Domingue, but a replay review that started after Nashville’s Calle Jarnkrok scored moments later revealed Arvidsson’s shot crossed the goal line before Domingue’s stick knocked the puck out.
Tampa Bay tied it at 10:48 when Vladislav Namestnikov scored his 16th goal, courtesy of Stamkos’ 38th assist. Namestnikov polished off a two-on-one as Stamkos slid the pass just under the stick of diving Predators defenseman P.K. Subban.
The Predators regained the lead at 19:10 of the second period with their second man-advantage tally. Mattias Ekholm teed up Subban in the left circle for a one-timer that beat Domingue for his 11th goal.
--Field Level Media
 