NEW YORK, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Crypto Company (OTC Grey:CRCW), one of the first publicly traded technology companies in the blockchain and digital currency industry, has officially completed an acquisition, through its wholly owned subsidiary, CoinTracking, LLC, of a majority stake in CoinTracking GmbH . California-based The Crypto Company, directly and through its subsidiaries, will continue to invest and expand its product roadmap as well as build on top of CoinTracking’s cryptocurrency data aggregation, token price tracking, portfolio management, tax calculation and reporting software. A Form 8-K has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announcing the transaction.
CEO of The Crypto Company, Mike Poutre, said, “It is an incredibly exciting time for us. The CoinTracking purchase supports our mission - to bridge the gap between cryptocurrency and mainstream traders, investors, merchants and everyday people. This quarter, we are rapidly expanding our search and acquisition of high potential blockchain companies with the intention of being an increasingly reliable source of market information, access to the rising digital asset class and risk mitigation.”
Our majority interest in CoinTracking GmbH has been entered into the commercial registry of the Republic of Germany.
Poutre continued, “Openness, honesty and transparency are the hallmarks of our company, especially at a time when skepticism is apparent in a nascent, high growth industry like blockchain and digital currency. Our recent Form 8-K filing for this completed deal represents a significant step forward for The Crypto Company, and our goal is to always provide investors and the general public with detailed information on business strategy, acquisitions, key hirings and new services and products.”
CoinTracking GmbH, majority owned by CoinTracking, LLC, a Nevada company and wholly-owned subsidiary of The Crypto Company, allows users to import data from over 50 exchanges and wallets, itemize their holdings, track each transaction, compare prices from around the world and calculate capital gains and losses for tax reporting purposes.
About The Crypto Company:
The Crypto Company is one of the first publicly traded technology companies in the digital currencies and blockchain sector. The Crypto Company offers a portfolio of digital assets, technologies and consulting services to the blockchain and cryptocurrency markets. Shareholders in The Crypto Company gain diversified exposure to the exponentially growing asset class. Currently, The Crypto Company is developing proprietary technology, including trading management and auditing software, tools and processes to assist traditional companies -- from start-up businesses to well-established companies -- to operate with and/or trade in cryptocurrencies.
Forward-Looking Statements :
Certain information set forth herein contains "forward-looking information," including "future oriented financial information" and "financial outlook," under applicable securities laws (collectively referred to herein as forward-looking statements). Except for statements of historical fact, information contained herein constitutes forward-looking statements and includes, but is not limited to, the (i) projected financial performance of the Company; (ii) the expected development of the Company's business, projects and joint ventures; (iii) execution of the Company's vision and growth strategy, including with respect to future M&A activity and global growth; (iv) sources and availability of third-party financing for the Company's projects; (v) completion of the Company's projects that are currently underway, in development or otherwise under consideration; (vi) renewal of the Company's current agreements; and (vii) future liquidity, working capital and capital requirements. Forward-looking statements are provided to allow potential investors the opportunity to understand management's beliefs and opinions in respect of the future so that they may use such beliefs and opinions as one factor in evaluating an investment.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and undue reliance should not be placed on them. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projections of future performance or result expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Although forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon what management of the Company believes are reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements if circumstances or management's estimates or opinions should change, except as required by applicable securities laws. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Investors:
Jeff Ramson / Stephanie Prince
PCG Advisory Group
646.731.9821
cryptocoir@pcgadvisory.com
Source:The Crypto Company