Due to significant growth and increased revenue projections, WFMSG will focus on enhancing the company’s marketing initiatives to grow brand awareness and industry leadership
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Workforce Management Software Group (WFMSG) today announced the appointment of Roger Woolley to Vice President of Marketing. Roger has more than 25 years of marketing strategy and product marketing accomplishments with extensive experience in the contact center market. Roger brings a special interest and successful background in workforce optimization technologies including workforce management, customer analytics, and other customer experience solutions. Roger has been tasked with building stronger brand awareness, creating differentiated messaging, and helping expand our strategic partnerships to achieve the company’s goals and increase market share. Prior to joining WFMSG, Roger held key marketing positions with Verint Systems and etalk Corporation.
“After four straight years of over twenty percent revenue growth, we are excited about adding an industry marketing leader to help us achieve our future revenue projections,” said Daryl Gonos, WFMSG Principal. “Building the WFMSG Community brand is paramount to our continued success and we look forward to the experience Roger will bring to help us reach our goals.”
As customers look for cloud-based workforce management solutions that are cost effective, easy to implement, and offer a unique set of features, they are shifting away from traditional offerings to alternative solutions. In fiscal year 2017, WFMSG experienced a three-hundred percent increase in SaaS customers, and expects that SaaS licensing will overtake on-premise deployments in 2018.
“As the company was built with a strong heritage in workforce management consulting, Community WFM is unique because it's designed and built by workforce management experts,” says Roger Woolley. “The product has a modern design, is multi-channel mobile ready, and automates many WFM processes. I couldn’t be happier about joining the WFMSG team and leading the marketing efforts.”
To accommodate WFMSG’s expansion plans, the company recently moved its headquarters to a larger office located in Richardson, Texas. To learn more about WFMSG, please visit our web site at www.wfmsg.com .
About WFMSG
The Workforce Management Software Group, Inc. (WFMSG) was founded in 2005 by a team of industry leading workforce management experts. WFMSG personnel were deeply engaged with legacy workforce management technologies and deployment approaches for Fortune 500 companies throughout North America and abroad. This expertise was distilled into the modern design of Community and our deployment and services models.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005343/en/
Workforce Management Software Group, Inc.
Roger Woolley, 877-668-6870 ext. 815
VP, Marketing
woolley@wfmsg.com
Source: Workforce Management Software Group, Inc.