GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Burke Porter Group, a global collective of intelligent machinery manufacturers, today announced that it has acquired Titan, Inc. , a leader in the design and manufacture of test stands and production assembly systems.
The acquisition continues the group's accelerated growth and expands their hydraulic testing and assembly equipment offerings globally.
Burke Porter Group serves the global automotive, advanced manufacturing and life science markets, maintaining more than 30 locations in Europe, Asia and the Americas. As the newest member of the Burke Porter Group family of companies, Titan joins Kleinknecht, LISMAR, Universal Balancing, CIMAT, Epic Equipment & Engineering, XL Machine Co. Inc., Korvis, Primatics, and the Burke E. Porter Machinery Co.
Since 1966, Titan has evolved from a tool and die business to consistently developing custom-engineered test solutions for hydraulic, vehicle, and powertrain applications. The company's customized approach allows them to engineer a cost-effective and ergonomically sound product, tailored to the customer.
Titan's solutions are widely used by world-leading off-highway OEMs and their tier one suppliers within the agriculture, construction, hydraulic components and forestry markets.
As a member of the Burke Porter Group family, Titan will continue to develop robust test stand and assembly solutions, headquartered in Sturtevant, Wisconsin with no changes in day-to-day operations.
Please visit www.burkeportergroup.com and www.titansystems.com for further information about Burke Porter Group and Titan, Inc. Milwaukee-based Promontory Point Capital represented the sellers in this transaction.
Press Contact: Betsy Grant, Global Marketing Communications Manager, +1 616-234-1207
About Burke Porter Group
The Burke Porter Group - a collective of machinery manufacturers - is dedicated to bringing customers the most intelligent and innovative solutions. Leading experts for over 60 years, our machines ensure the highest levels of quality in the global automotive, advanced manufacturing and life science markets in Europe, Asia and the Americas. Burke Porter Group's global network provides unmatched supply and support to our customers across the world that has fueled a consistent, organic growth. We create machines that think.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/burke-porter-group-completes-acquisition-of-titan-inc-300589545.html
SOURCE Burke Porter Group