WINTER PARK, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- COPC Inc., a global consulting firm that helps companies improve operations to transform the customer experience, has appointed Kyle Kennedy as executive vice president, North America. Kennedy will lead client engagements including customer experience, operational performance improvement and vendor management projects. He also will be responsible for the global certification practice, providing vision for the continued evolution and adoption of the COPC Standards, the global benchmark for high-performing customer operations.
“We are thrilled to have Kyle join the COPC team in this leadership role. Formerly a COPC client, Kyle brings a high level of expertise in customer experience management and has a successful track record of guiding large operations. Further, Kyle has been a long-term member of the COPC Standards Committee. This direct experience and knowledge of the Standards will help him further drive our global certification program. He is a great fit for our team and for our clients,” said Kathleen Jezierski, president and chief operating officer, COPC Inc.
Prior to joining COPC Inc., Kennedy was chief operating officer of Ruffalo Noel Levitz, a provider of technology-enabled services, software, and consulting for higher education enrollment management and fundraising. Previously, he worked for 22 years at Harte-Hanks, a global direct marketer where he focused on contact center and fulfillment services. While there, Kennedy served in many roles including group managing director where he formulated and executed global service delivery, account management, and expansion. Kennedy holds a BBA from The University of Texas at Austin and an MBA from Baylor University. In addition to serving on the COPC Standards Committee, he also is a Certified COPC Implementation Leader.
“After many years serving on the COPC Standards Committee and leveraging COPC to improve my operations, I am excited to be part of such a globally respected organization. I look forward to being involved with the strategic direction of the COPC Standards and expanding our global certification practice. Sharing COPC’s commitment to the customer experience, I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work with clients in their performance improvement efforts,” said Kennedy.
For information about COPC Inc.’s customer experience services, go to https://www.copc.com/what-we-do/customer-experience/ . To learn about the COPC Standards and the certification process, go to https://www.copc.com/what-we-do/certification/ .
About COPC Inc.
COPC Inc. provides consulting, training, certification and the RevealCX™ software solution for operations that support the customer experience. The company also offers the IndirectPro™ line of services for the sourcing industry. Starting in 1996, COPC Inc. created the COPC Standards, a collection of performance management systems for call centers, CX operations, vendor management, and procurement. Today, the company is an innovative global leader that empowers organizations to optimize operations to deliver a superior customer experience. COPC Inc. is privately held with headquarters in Winter Park, FL, U.S. and with operations in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America, India and Japan. www.copc.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125006001/en/
COPC Inc.
Lezli Harrell, 512-431-4481
lharrell@copc.com
Source: COPC Inc.