SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Fairway Technologies, Inc., experts in software development, integration, and design, announced today the merger with Solekai Systems Corporation, a leader in custom software development, integration and testing. Both are headquartered in San Diego, CA. The combined companies will continue operations under the Fairway and Solekai banners.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005530/en/
With this merger, the combined companies have over 80 engineers and a range of skillsets able to address the software development needs of a wider array of customers. Additionally, the companies will have the agility and financial strength to drive software innovation across multiple vertical markets.
Fairway Technologies is a premier provider of expert technology consulting and software development that helps leading firms convert requirements into top-quality results. Fairway’s expertise ranges from custom software development to business technology integration and solution architecture, in addition to next-generation innovations such as mobile computing, cloud computing, data analytics, AI and machine learning, and open source.
Solekai is a renowned technology leader in the Digital Media , Smart Grid , and IoT space, with an unmatched reputation for accelerating time-to-market for mission-critical product launches. Solekai has more than 16 years of experience serving the needs of the biggest names in the technology industry, including many Fortune 500 companies.
“We are excited to have Solekai Systems join Fairway Technologies in order to provide an expanded service offering to the marketplace,” commented Brett Humphrey , CEO of Fairway Technologies. “Our solutions are highly complementary to those of Solekai. This merger strengthens our already robust service offerings to our valued customers.”
“Together with Fairway we are able to create a distinctive offering for our enterprise and SMB customers to accelerate growth,” said Martin Caniff, CEO of Solekai. “We are delighted that the market will reap the benefits of the synergies of this merger.”
About Fairway Technologies
Fairway Technologies is a premier provider of expert technology consulting and software development services that help leading firms convert requirements into top-quality results. Founded in 2002, Fairway’s unique business model successfully delivers the high-end technology resources needed to solve tough problems, without the frustration and costly overhead typically associated with large enterprise or staffing agencies. Headquartered in La Jolla, California, Fairway Technologies boasts a dramatically high referral and retention rate, and thrives on helping mid-size and enterprise organizations reduce risk, gain competitive advantage, and ensure project success.
About Solekai Systems Corporation
Solekai is a software design services and technology integration company based in San Diego, CA. Founded in 2002, Solekai rapidly enables its technology partners and customers to increase revenue, reduce cost, and improve customer satisfaction by accelerating the design, development, test, delivery and support of exceptional, mission-critical software. Solekai provides valuable domain expertise in selected vertical markets for digital video, digital wireless, digital medical, and utility information systems. Solekai content is already at work enabling more than 100 million deployed consumer and industrial products you already use at home, at work, and at play. Solekai resolves the most difficult software development, integration, and test challenges with “insourced” developers and project managers which permit Solekai clients to side-step the costs of on-boarding and off-boarding expert development and integration teams.
Solekai will be attending DistribuTECH 2018 Booth 3326 in San Antonio, January 23 rd – 25 th . Email Solekai at info@solekai.com to meet with the Solekai management team.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005530/en/
Solekai
Michelle Woodward
Director of Corporate Marketing
858-436-1933
mwoodward@solekai.com
www.solekai.com
Source: Solekai