NEW YORK, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on DWDP, EMN, FMC, and HUN which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . For today, WallStEquities.com turns investors' attention to four major players in the Chemicals Diversified space: DowDuPont Inc. (NYSE: DWDP), Eastman Chemical Co. (NYSE: EMN), FMC Corp. (NYSE: FMC), and Huntsman Corp. (NYSE: HUN). Most of diversified chemical companies are capital intensive, reflecting the large manufacturing facilities required to produce bulk quantities. Combined with the high technology requirements, this gives the industry a competitive advantage in terms of high barriers to entry. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below. http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
DowDuPont
Last Friday at the close, shares in Midland, Michigan headquartered DowDuPont Inc. ended 0.48% higher at $77.02. The stock recorded a trading volume of 6.19 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 7.81% in the last month and 8.34% in the previous three months. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 6.38% and 8.06%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of DowDuPont, which through its subsidiaries, engages in agriculture, materials science, and specialty products businesses worldwide, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 72.65.
On January 25 th , 2018, The Dow Chemical Company, a subsidiary of DowDuPont, announced that it was recognized as a 2017 Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global Innovator for the seventh consecutive year. The annual report highlights the most successful organizations in the world that are active in innovation through research and development, protection of their IP, and the achievement of commercial success. Get the full research report on DWDP for free by clicking below at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=DWDP
Eastman Chemical
Kingsport, Tennessee-based Eastman Chemical Co.'s stock finished Friday's session 2.02% higher at $102.31. A total volume of 1.61 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 1.06 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 10.03% in the last month, 12.89% over the previous three months, and 27.43% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 9.37% and 18.02%, respectively. Additionally, shares of Eastman Chemical, which manufactures and sells materials, specialty additives, chemicals, and fibers in the US and internationally, have an RSI of 81.90.
On January 24 th , 2018, Eastman Chemical announced that its executives, including Mark Costa, Board Chair and CEO, will host an Innovation Day for chemical industry analysts to present details of the Company's growth strategies and innovation programs. The event will take place on February 06 th , 2018, in New York City, with presentations from 8:15 a.m. to approximately 12:45 p.m. ET. Get access to our top-rated research, including the free report on EMN at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=EMN
FMC Corp.
Shares in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania headquartered FMC Corp. ended the session 0.07% higher at $92.03 with a total trading volume of 960,287 shares. The stock has surged 48.08% over the past year. The Company's shares are trading above their 200-day moving average by 8.90%. Moreover, shares of FMC Corp. have an RSI of 43.57.
On January 10 th , 2018, FMC Corp. announced that the Australia China Alumni Association has recognized Bethwyn Todd, Vice President and Director for FMC Agricultural Solutions and president of FMC Asia, with the Australian Ambassador's Award for Women in Leadership. The award recognizes achievements of leading female graduates of Australian universities, who inspire other women through their dedication, accomplishments, and commitment to the Australia-China relationship. Click here to subscribe for a free membership which welcomes you with our report on FMC at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=FMC
Huntsman
The Woodlands, Texas headquartered Huntsman Corp.'s shares recorded a trading volume of 3.04 million shares. The stock closed 0.31% higher at $35.29. The Company's shares have gained 5.82% in the past month, 19.02% in the previous three months, and 65.29% over the past year. The stock is trading 8.34% and 25.86% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Huntsman have an RSI of 68.13.
On January 25 th , 2018, Huntsman announced that it will release its Q4 2017 financial results on February 23 rd , 2018, at approximately 6:00 a.m. ET. The Company will hold a conference call at 10:00 a.m. ET that same day to discuss the results. The conference call will be available via webcast under the investor page of the Company's website. To get free access to your research report on HUN, sign up at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=HUN
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stock-review-for-chemicals-investors----dowdupont-eastman-chemical-fmc-corp-and-huntsman-300589360.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities