Founder of PRIME Research, Dr. Rainer Mathes, Ph.D, to Lead Cision Insights
CHICAGO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cision (NYSE: CISN) announced today that it has completed its acquisition of PRIME Research ("PRIME"). By adding PRIME to its portfolio, Cision enhances its global leadership position in professional services for media measurement insights and ROI analysis for communications programs, and further advances its artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies. With the close of the acquisition, founder and president of PRIME, Rainer Mathes, has been appointed president of Cision Insights, which is dedicated to evaluating campaign effectiveness through customized intelligence, reporting and industry expertise.
"At PRIME, we pride ourselves on being the best and working for the best and our merger with Cision is a perfect example of this," said Mathes, founder and president of PRIME Research. "I'm pleased to be joining the Cision team and look forward to sharing my knowledge in media measurement as I take on my new role leading Cision Insights."
Mathes founded PRIME in 1988 while holding research positions at the Institute of Media Studies at the University of Mainz and later at the Research Center for Surveys and Methodology (ZUMA) in Mannheim. He has developed PRIME into a global research organization with locations in Europe, the United States and Asia. He has transformed the business over time, focusing on digital competences, including PRIME.com .
"Rainer's expertise in communication research and measurement, combined with PRIME's exceptional technology platform that brings truly innovative AI/machine learning applications to the communications industry, will be instrumental in helping us improve the communicator's ability to measure and optimize earned media ROI," said Kevin Akeroyd, Cision CEO. "As head of Cision Insights, Mathes will help guide Cision's ongoing commitment to provide in-depth analysis that enables our customers to make better informed decisions regarding their strategic communications programs."
Through advanced AI and machine learning technology, PRIME is able to provide intelligent topic detection, entity recognition and semantic profiling for communication, marketing, sales, supply chain and risk management. They work with some of the world's most prestigious brands including MasterCard and Jaguar. This acquisition further solidifies Cision's mission to be the one-stop provider for brands who want to identify their ideal influencers, craft and distribute campaigns and attribute meaningful business value.
About Cision
Cision Ltd. (NYSE: CISN) is a leading global provider of earned media software and services to public relations and marketing communications professionals. Cision's software allows users to identify key influencers, craft and distribute strategic content, and measure meaningful impact. Cision has over 3,000 employees with offices in 15 countries throughout the Americas, EMEA, and APAC. For more information about its award-winning products and services, including the Cision Communications Cloud®, visit www.cision.com and follow Cision on Twitter @Cision.
About PRIME Research
From eight international offices on four continents and in over 100 languages, PRIME marries talent with technology to help communicators demonstrate and generate PR value and ROI. The firm integrates, analyzes and evaluates media performance across all channels – social, digital, print and broadcast – to deliver actionable insights and strategic guidance for better communications and business results. PRIME has over 700 employees with offices in the Brazil, China, Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Investor Contact
Jack Pearlstein
Chief Financial Officer
Jack.Pearlstein@Cision.com
Media Contacts
Nick Bell
VP, Marketing Communications
CisionPR@cision.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cision-completes-acquisition-of-prime-research-300587210.html
SOURCE Cision