0 COMMENTS Electronic Arts Inc. EA 0.76% reports results for its fiscal third quarter after the close of trading Tuesday. Here’s what you need to know:
EARNINGS FORECAST : Electronic Arts is expected to report adjusted profit of $2.19 a share, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence, down from $2.58 a year earlier. Those numbers exclude items Wall Street believes aren’t a regular part of business.
EA has projected a loss of approximately 21 cents a share under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, compared with flat results a year ago.
REVENUE FORECAST : Adjusted revenue is expected to slip 3.4% to $2 billion from $2.07 billion, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. EA has said it expects GAAP revenue of about $1.14 million, down 1% from a year ago.
WHAT TO WATCH :
ALL EYES ON STAR WARS : “Star Wars Battlefront II,” EA’s biggest release of the quarter, got off to a rocky start after testers of an early version complained the game appeared to give an advantage to players willing to spend on so-called loot boxes that contain virtual goods. The brouhaha upset executives at Star Wars licenser Walt Disney Co. , and EA ended up halting the spending feature on the eve of the game’s launch . Shares fell as much as 10% in the weeks following the Nov. 17 release before recovering. Analysts think players are on track to purchase between 10 million and 12 million copies by the end of the first fiscal quarter, compared with 14 million for the first installment, which debuted in November 2015. They also think the absence of the in-game spending feature will negatively hit future digital revenue for EA.
TOUGH COMPARISON : In the year-ago holiday quarter, EA released new installments of two popular series, “Battlefield” and “Titanfall.” The company didn’t share sales numbers for the games, but analysts think “Star Wars Battlefront II” didn’t do as well as their combined total -- and not only because of the loot-box controversy. EA last year said “Battlefield” attracted a player base 50% larger than the franchise’s predecessor. In addition, analysts note EA must pay a royalty fee to Disney for “Star Wars Battlefront II,” whereas it owns “Battlefield” and “Titanfall” outright.
KEY GAME DELAYS . Last week, EA’s shares dipped more than 2% after the videogame website Kotaku suggested a highly anticipated EA game had been delayed to 2019 . The company previously had said “Anthem,” an online multiplayer action game from its BioWare studio, would ship in fall 2018. That news came months after EA closed Visceral Games, its studio tasked in 2014 with creating a story-driven game set in the Star Wars universe that had been due in late fiscal 2019. While delays are common across the industry, they could throw off earnings projections. EA declined to comment on the Kotaku report. Analysts will be listening on the call for insight into EA’s release slate.
Write to Sarah E. Needleman at sarah.needleman@wsj.com