CLEARWATER, Fla., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- (ISC)² today appointed Bruce Beam director of infrastructure and security. Beam has more than 20 years of experience leading IT/ICT and security teams for large enterprises and the U.S. Navy. In his new position, he will lead all aspects of (ISC)²'s global IT/ICT and cybersecurity operations.
"Bruce is a strategic technology leader with a proven track record of strengthening enterprise security posture, building collaborative teams and enabling more efficient business processes," said Wesley Simpson, COO at (ISC)². "As an (ISC)² member, Bruce personally understands what our community of cybersecurity professionals need and what they expect from us. Under his leadership, we will continue our infrastructure modernization projects and dramatically improve service levels for all members."
Beam was most recently senior director of information security and infrastructure for IT services provider CoreSite, where he led a diverse team responsible for information security, network administration, systems management and help desk teams providing operational solutions to clients in government, civil defense, public safety, intelligence, infrastructure management, energy, navigation technology and more around the world.
He is also a former member of the U.S. Navy where he served in roles such as IT director for the Naval Mine ASW Warfare Center Detachment at Norfolk, and chief security officer for the Naval Oceanography ASW Center.
"(ISC)² is the premier cybersecurity organization in the world," added Beam. "I share the organization's passion and commitment to certify and educate cybersecurity professionals. The Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP ® ) is the 'calling card' for all information security professionals, and it is a great privilege to be a part of the team working so diligently to inspire a safe and secure cyber world."
Beam holds the CISSP and Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) certifications. He earned a master's degree in information technology/information assurance from the University of Maryland University College, a bachelor's degree in computer information systems from Jacksonville University and a bachelor's degree in trade, technical and industrial education from Valdosta State University.
About (ISC)²
(ISC)² ® is an international nonprofit membership association focused on inspiring a safe and secure cyber world. Best known for the acclaimed Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification, (ISC)² offers a portfolio of credentials that are part of a holistic, programmatic approach to security. Our membership, over 125,000 strong, is made up of certified cyber, information, software and infrastructure security professionals who are making a difference and helping to advance the industry. Our vision is supported by our commitment to educate and reach the public through our charitable foundation – The Center for Cyber Safety and Education ™ . For more information about (ISC)² visit www.isc2.org , follow us on Twitter or connect with us on Facebook , LinkedIn or the (ISC)² Community .
© 2018 (ISC)² Inc., (ISC)², CISSP, SSCP, CCSP, CAP, CSSLP, HCISPP, CCFP, CISSP-ISSAP, CISSP-ISSEP, CISSP-ISSMP and CBK are registered marks of (ISC)², Inc.
Media Contact
Amanda Tarantino
Manager, Corporate Communications
(ISC)²
atarantino@isc2.org
727-742-1853
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/isc2-names-bruce-beam-director-of-infrastructure-and-security-300578592.html
SOURCE (ISC)2