FREDERICKSBURG, Va., Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Quarles Petroleum, Inc., a regional provider of residential and commercial fuel, has acquired the propane gas distribution business of Noblett's Northern Neck Gas in Kilmarnock, Virginia. Quarles will transition the Northern Neck Gas operations into the current service center office located at 11549 History Land Highway in Warsaw, Virginia.
"Northern Neck Gas propane distribution business is a perfect complement to our existing business in the region," said Paul Giambra, CEO of Quarles Petroleum. "The acquisition solidifies our position in the market and substantially expands our customer base in the Northern Neck and Middle Peninsula. The Northern Neck Gas customers can expect Quarles to deliver the same high quality of customer service they've received in the past."
Noblett's Northern Neck Gas was the first bottled gas supplier in the Northern Neck, delivering propane for cooking, hot water, pool heaters, gas dryers, generators and heating since 1939. The Hudnall family has owned and operated Northern Neck Gas since 1981 and will retain ownership of Noblett Appliances in Kilmarnock.
"We're pleased to pass stewardship of our propane distribution business to Quarles Petroleum," stated Joe Hudnall, president of Northern Neck Gas, "and are confident that they will continue to deliver the high-quality products and service our customers have come to expect. We're also pleased that many of our customers will continue to see familiar faces, as our delivery and service employees—many have been with the company for over 20 years—have been offered opportunities to continue in their positions with Quarles."
About Quarles Petroleum, Inc.
Established in 1940 as a one-truck oil company in Warrenton, Virginia, Quarles Petroleum is a regional provider of residential propane and oil, commercial delivered fuels, fleet card sites and services, and lubricants. The family-owned firm headquartered in Fredericksburg serves customers in Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and North Carolina. Quarles strives to provide superior customer service and competitive prices every day. Quarles continues to seek the right opportunities to accelerate their growth through strategic acquisitions. For more information about Quarles Petroleum, please visit our website at www.quarlesinc.com .
Media Contact
Susan Morgan
1-804-4055685
susan@susanwmorganpr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/quarles-petroleum-acquires-propane-distributor-noblett-northern-neck-gas-300585924.html
SOURCE Quarles Petroleum, Inc.