BOCA RATON, Fla., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Amzak Capital Management, LLC ("Amzak") has acquired the majority ownership of StampTech, Inc. ("StampTech") and merged its operations with AOC MetalWorks ("AOC"), a current Amzak portfolio company. The acquisition and merger will form a metal stamping and fabrication operating platform with five manufacturing facilities across the Southeast US and revenues in excess of $80 million.
"We are excited to partner with the four StampTech shareholders. They bring to the table decades of operational experience that will be a great resource for AOC and supports our growth strategy by increasing our geographic reach and expanding our product offerings," said Tom Collins President of AOC.
Alan Pettigrew, a StampTech shareholder and Vice President of New Customer Sales said, "The combination provides us with the opportunity to diversify our revenue and provide a better overall product to our customers. With this addition, there is little we cannot do from a metal manufacturing standpoint and few areas we cannot reach within the Southeast."
"This announcement marks the next significant milestone for both companies," said Joe Vidmar, operating partner at Amzak and interim CEO of the combined company. "Amzak is committed to driving growth at both companies through continued capital investment and additional resources. This commitment will not only drive bottom line growth, but also provide our employees with more opportunities as we further develop the organization and strive to improve our operational excellence."
StampTech marks Amzak's second investment into the metal stamping and fabrication industry. Amzak is actively searching for additional investments within the space. Fifth Third Bank provided the debt financing for the transaction. Dominion Partners acted as StampTech's sell-side advisor.
About Amzak
Amzak Capital Management is a private investment firm owned by the Kazma family. Amzak's current portfolio is comprised primarily of direct equity investments, fixed income securities, and real estate projects. Within its direct investment practice, Amzak looks for control and non-control equity investments companies with platform potential generating $40 million to $200 million in sales and $4 million to $25 million in EBITDA. It typically invests $10 to $50 million per transaction, with notably higher amounts possible for a control transaction either alone or through partnerships with like-minded investors. More information can be found at www.amzak.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amzak-acquires-stamptech-inc-and-merges-with-aoc-metalworks-further-expanding-its-metal-fabrication-and-stamping-portfolio-300579922.html
SOURCE Amzak Capital Management, LLC