Coincides with its 25 th Anniversary, 24 Years’ Consecutive Growth
ORLANDO, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Hilton Grand Vacations Inc. (NYSE:HGV) today celebrates one year since ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange to mark becoming an independent, public company on Jan. 4, 2017, following a spin-off from Hilton (NYSE:HLT).
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006301/en/
One year ago, executives and guests of Hilton Grand Vacations (NYSE:HGV) visited the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to celebrate HGV's spin-off from Hilton (NYSE:HLT). To mark the occasion, Mark Wang, president and CEO of Hilton Grand Vacations, rang the opening bell. (Photo Credit: NYSE)
“2017 was a milestone year for HGV,” says Mark Wang, president and CEO of Hilton Grand Vacations. “We continue to focus on fully activating our business around each of our strategic priorities, especially growing sales and our member base through Net Owner Growth and expanding our footprint and partnerships through opportunistic business ventures.”
In 2017, HGV accomplished the following:
The Hilton Grand Vacations Club on Sesokojima Island is HGV’s first announced timeshare resort in Asia, through a partnership with Hilton and Mori Trust. Grand openings of The District by Hilton Club in Washington, D.C., and The Grand Islander by Hilton Grand Vacations Club in Oahu, Hawaii. Acquired a 25 percent interest in LV Tower 52, LLC the developer and seller of Elara, a Hilton Grand Vacations Club, in Las Vegas through a joint venture with Blackstone Real Estate Partners VIII L.P. Purchased remaining inventory at Sunrise Lodge, a Hilton Grand Vacations Club, in Park City, Utah, from Sunrise Park City, LLC.
About Hilton Grand Vacations Inc.
Hilton Grand Vacations Inc. (NYSE:HGV) is recognized as a leading global timeshare company. With headquarters in Orlando, Fla., Hilton Grand Vacations develops, markets and operates a system of brand-name, high-quality vacation ownership resorts in select vacation destinations. The Company also manages and operates two innovative club membership programs: Hilton Grand Vacations Club ® and The Hilton Club ® , providing exclusive exchange, leisure travel and reservation services for more than 280,000 Club Members. For more information, visit www.hgv.com and www.hiltongrandvacations.com .
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006301/en/
Hilton Grand Vacations Inc.
MEDIA CONTACT:
Lauren George
407-613-8431
lgeorge@hgvc.com
Source: Hilton Grand Vacations Inc.