JASPER, Ind., Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kimball Electronics, Inc. (NASDAQ:KE) will announce its second quarter fiscal year 2018 financial results on Wednesday, February 7, 2018 after the closing of the market.
The company will hold a conference call and live webcast to review the results on Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.
The telephone number to access the conference call is 800-992-4934 or internationally at 937-502-2251. Please reference conference ID 9646209. The live webcast of the conference call can be accessed at investors.kimballelectronics.com .
For those unable to participate in the live webcast, the call will be archived at investors.kimballelectronics.com .
About Kimball Electronics, Inc.
Recognized with a reputation for excellence, Kimball Electronics is committed to a high performance culture that values personal and organizational commitment to quality, reliability, value, speed, and ethical behavior. Kimball Electronics employees know they are part of a company culture that builds lasting relationships and global success for customers while enabling employees to share in the Company’s success through personal, professional, and financial growth.
Kimball Electronics trades under the symbol “KE” on The NASDAQ Stock Market. Kimball Electronics is a global contract electronic manufacturing services (“EMS”) company that specializes in durable electronics for the automotive, medical, industrial, and public safety end markets. Kimball Electronics is well recognized by customers and industry trade publications for its excellent quality, reliability, and innovative service. From its manufacturing operations in the United States, China, Mexico, Poland, Romania, and Thailand, Kimball Electronics provides electronic manufacturing services, including engineering and supply chain support, which utilize common production and support capabilities to a variety of industries globally. Kimball Electronics is headquartered in Jasper, Indiana.
To learn more about Kimball Electronics, visit: www.kimballelectronics.com .
Lasting relationships. Global success.
CONTACT:
Adam W. Smith
Treasurer
Telephone 812.634.4000
E-mail: Investor.Relations@kimballelectronics.com
Source:Kimball Electronics, Inc.