CHARLOTTE, N.C., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Basware, the global leader in networked source-to-pay solutions, e-invoicing and innovative financing services, has appointed Eric Wilson to senior vice president and general manager of North America. Wilson joins the global Basware Executive Team with this promotion.
The decision to promote Wilson is a key element in the company's strategy to invest more in the North American growth market. As the general manager of Basware in North America, Wilson will ensure Basware exceeds the expectations of customers in helping them realize success both locally and globally. From supporting customers in navigating the tax and regulatory complexities of a global business environment, to communicating what they need to know about emerging technologies, such as machine learning and AI, Wilson will continue Basware's long tradition of customer success.
Wilson is preceded by Tehseen Dahya, who will continue to serve as an executive advisor to Basware, focusing on executing the company's long-term strategy and North American business development.
"The North American market is a key driver for our global growth strategy and we are extremely pleased to have Eric at the helm," said Vesa Tykkyläinen, chief executive officer, Basware. "Eric is a true industry visionary and an excellent addition to our Global Executive Team. I would like to thank Tehseen Dahya for his significant contribution to Basware and appreciate his continued focus on our customers as he continues to support Basware as an executive advisor."
"I am honored to lead Basware's North American business and build upon the strong foundation laid by Tehseen Dahya," said Eric Wilson, senior vice president, Basware. "This is a very exciting time for the company, and I could not be more eager to help guide Basware North America and our customers to success in 2018 and beyond."
Previously, Wilson served as vice president of Purchase-to-Pay for North America and APAC at Basware. Wilson has more than 20 years of experience in the North American Purchase-to-Pay business and is a globally recognized speaker on the trends and emerging technologies that seek to re-define the future of global business commerce. Prior to joining Basware, Wilson was chief operating officer of Verian Technologies, acquired by Basware in 2016.
North American Press Contact:
Scott Conklin
919-867-2826
sconklin@apcoworldwide.com
European Press Contact:
Jukka Jänönen
+358 (0) 400 127147
Jukka.janonen@basware.com
About Basware:
Basware is the global leader in providing networked purchase-to-pay solutions, e-invoicing and innovative financing services. Basware's commerce and financing network connects businesses in over 100 countries and territories around the globe. As the largest open business network in the world, Basware provides scale and reach for organizations of all sizes, enabling them to grow their business and unlock value across their operations by simplifying and streamlining financial processes. Small and large companies around the world achieve significant cost savings, more flexible payment terms, greater efficiencies and closer relationships with their suppliers. Find out more at www.basware.com .
Follow Basware on Twitter: @Basware , join the discussion on the Basware LinkedIn , Basware Facebook and Basware Blog .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/basware-appoints-eric-wilson-to-lead-operations-in-north-america-300588284.html
SOURCE Basware