DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Liberty Oilfield Services Inc. (NYSE: LBRT) (“Liberty”) it has launched an initial public offering of 10,714,286 shares of its Class A common stock at an anticipated initial offering price between $14.00 and $16.00 per share pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (the “Registration Statement”) previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In addition, Liberty and the selling shareholder intend to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 1,607,143 shares of Liberty’s Class A common stock at the initial public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The shares have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “LBRT,” subject to official notice of issuance.
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Wells Fargo Securities, Citigroup, J.P. Morgan and Evercore ISI are acting as joint book-running managers for the proposed offering.
The offering of these securities will be made only by means of a prospectus that meets the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from:
Morgan Stanley
Attention: Prospectus Department
180 Varick Street, 2 nd Floor
New York, NY 10014
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Attention: Prospectus Department
200 West Street
New York, NY 10282
Telephone: 1-866-471-2526
Email: prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com
Wells Fargo Securities
c/o Equity Syndicate Department
375 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10152
Telephone: 1-800-326-5897
Email: cmclientsupport@wellsfargo.com
Important Information
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. The registration statement may be obtained free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov under “Liberty Oilfield Services Inc.” This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Liberty Oilfield Services Inc.
Liberty Oilfield Services Inc. is an independent provider of hydraulic fracturing services to onshore oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in North America.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent Liberty’s expectations or beliefs concerning future events, and it is possible that the results described in this press release will not be achieved. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of Liberty’s control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and, except as required by law, Liberty does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Liberty to predict all such factors. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in the prospectus filed with the SEC in connection with Liberty’s initial public offering. The risk factors and other factors noted in Liberty’s prospectus could cause its actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005907/en/
Liberty Oilfield Services Inc.
Michael Stock, 303-515-2894
Chief Financial Officer
IR@libertyfrac.com
Source: Liberty Oilfield Services Inc.