Firm adds depth in Diversified Industrial vertical
PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- D.A. Davidson & Co. announced today that Matt Summerville has joined the firm’s award-winning institutional equity research team as a senior analyst covering the industrial technology sector.
An experienced equity analyst, Summerville joins D.A. Davidson after working at Alembic Global Advisors and KeyBanc Capital Markets, where he earned a No. 1 ranking among top U.S. Earnings Estimators and No. 2 ranking for Stock Picking from StarMine, among other national awards.
“Matt has been providing exceptional value-added research to investors for twenty years, through original, in-depth analysis of industrial stocks. Matt holds management teams accountable to their performance, helping him gain the respect of these executives and credibility with investors,” said Gil Luria , Director of Institutional Research. “Matt will round out a diversified industrial team that already includes Brent Thielman’s Engineering and Construction coverage and Steve Chercover’s Paper and Forest Products. We are delighted to have him on board.”
Summerville is part of a team of award-winning analysts whose coverage focuses on approximately 300 publicly traded companies in select industry verticals, including technology, financial institutions, consumer, diversified industrials, and real estate.
D.A. Davidson’s Equity Capital Markets group provides capital markets services and products that include investment banking, institutional sales, trading, research and corporate services. The firm’s industry-driven research team is supported by a dedicated group of sales and trading professionals.
About D.A. Davidson Companies
D.A. Davidson Companies is an employee-owned financial services firm offering a range of financial services and advice to individuals, corporations, institutions, and municipalities nationwide. Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Montana, with corporate offices in Denver, Los Angeles, Portland, and Seattle, the company has more than 1,350 employees and offices in 26 states.
Subsidiaries include: D.A. Davidson & Co., the largest full-service investment firm headquartered in the Northwest, providing wealth management, investment banking, equity and fixed income capital markets services, and advice; Davidson Investment Advisors, a professional asset management firm; D.A. Davidson Trust Company, a trust and wealth management company; and Davidson Fixed Income Management, a registered investment adviser providing fixed income portfolio and advisory services.
For information, visit dadavidson.com or @DADavidsonCo
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005311/en/
Prosek for D.A. Davidson
Katherine Fox, 212-279-3115, x294
kfox@prosek.com
or
D.A. Davidson
Jacquie Burchard, 406-791-7465
Cell: 406-868-1392
jburchard@dadco.com
Source: D.A. Davidson & Co.