OKLAHOMA CITY, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Universal Insurance Agency, a First United company, announced today that it has merged with Ledbetter Insurance Agency, LLC. The merger, which went into effect Dec. 29, forms one of the largest independent insurance agencies in Oklahoma City and in the state of Oklahoma.
The partnership continues the expansion of Universal Insurance as a wholly owned subsidiary of First United Bank since 2014 offering commercial insurance, personal insurance, and employee benefits in communities throughout Oklahoma and Texas. Ledbetter, which was founded in Oklahoma City in 1918, brings years of experience to Universal while expanding the ability to better serve customers.
"We are excited to join forces with the insurance team at Universal and such a culture-driven organization like First United," Greg Moore, president of Ledbetter Insurance, said. "Together, we will be able to strengthen our resources and continue to serve our clients with their expanding needs in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, and personal insurance while providing a phenomenal customer experience."
"The opportunity to partner with Greg Moore, Bruce Chadick, Mark Holland and the entire Ledbetter team enables us to significantly broaden our talented team at Universal," Howard McClure, president of Universal Insurance, added. "First United is committed to expanding our insurance business in Oklahoma and Texas to empower more businesses, professionals and neighbors in our communities."
ABOUT UNIVERSAL INSURANCE, A FIRST UNITED COMPANY:
Universal Insurance Agency is a wholly owned subsidiary of First United Bank offering insurance throughout Texas and Oklahoma, including commercial, personal and employee benefits. Established in 1900, First United has more than 85 bank, mortgage and insurance locations throughout Texas and Oklahoma. It is one of the largest, well-capitalized banking organizations in the Southwest with assets of more than $6 billion, and it is among the largest privately held community banking organizations in the U.S. First United provides a full range of financial services including banking, mortgage, insurance, and investment products and services, and is dedicated to inspiring and empowering others to Spend Life Wisely ® . Learn more at firstunitedbank.com .
MEDIA CONTACT:
Marissa Stabler
Marissa.Stabler@TheLoomisAgency.com
469.859.3445
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/universal-insurance-a-first-united-company-merges-with-ledbetter-insurance-300587767.html
SOURCE Universal Insurance Agency