0 COMMENTS Good morning. It’s one of life’s great mysteries: Why doesn’t Taco Bell sell fries? That’s the question at the core of a slickly produced new spot from the restaurant chain, created in the style of a gripping movie trailer for fake flick “Web of Fries.” The rip-roaring trailer is stuffed with thriller clichés and sets up the Jan. 25 introduction of fries to its menu. Mark from Blink 182 will be pleased .
I’ve Got Commitment Issues Cord-cutters are a promiscuous bunch. As WSJ reports, cancellation rates for some streaming services are at over 50% because some users only sign up for their favorite programs, then drop off once the season is over. The expectation of churn is putting pressure on companies to add large numbers of users, all while attempting to spend efficiently on marketing and customer acquisition. Adding discounts for subscriptions with set time periods could be a response, but part of what’s so attractive about streaming services is that you can come and go as you please, rather than being locked into long contracts. Another marketing tactic being deployed by some platforms is to invest in their recommendation engines to ensure viewers are consistently served with new content tailored to their interests. And then there’s always the trusty bundle—partnering with cellphone and other service providers in a bid to reduce subscriber attrition.
Less Is More Two pieces of Snap news of note from Thursday. First up, Cheddar’s Alex Heath reported that the company laid off around two dozen people across eight different teams on Thursday. Most of those layoffs were reportedly in Snap’s content division. It’s worth checking out Evan Spiegel’s memo to staff, which is all about efficiency. “I’d like to make it very clear that our team is not here to win 2nd place...” (When it comes to the ads business, Snap probably has to worry more about becoming No. 3 before worrying about 2nd place) “...we have and we will consistently, systematically, out-innovate our competitors with substantially few resources and in far less time.” The reorganization of the content team comes shortly after Snap made senior content hires in former News Corp executive Rahul Chopra (Reminder: News Corp is WSJ’s parent company) and Mike Su, the former chief product officer at Mitú, a multi-channel network. Now, as Digiday reports, Snap is on a charm offensive with publishers , announcing its first publisher summit. Interesting timing, just days after publishers were reeling over Facebook announcing it’s deprioritizing their content in the news feed.
Life On Mars? In an ever-fragmented media world, simplification is key for marketers, especially for those with a global remit. Case in point: Mars, on Thursday, called a global review of its $1.4 billion media account . The plan is to consolidate planning and buying duties across its various food, confectionery and pet care businesses. Media planning is now handled by WPP’s MediaCom and local buying duties are split between Publicis Groupe’s Starcom, Omnicom’s OMD and MediaCom. Tom Denford, chief strategy officer at ID Comms, the advertising consultancy that is running the review, tells me there has been a broader industry trend of marketers looking to simplify their media agency rosters. While historically that was often driven by procurement looking to drive down costs, now marketers are looking to take more control of media decision-making. “Media is being rethought of as part of a bigger marketing transformation program that is tending to result in working with fewer suppliers,” Mr. Denford said.
When the Chips Are Down There are plenty of weapons in a food marketer’s arsenal to attempt to convince consumers to reevaluate a product that’s been around for years. Sometimes that can be introducing the idea of consuming the product at a different daypart—beer at brunch, cereal for dinner. Often, it’s about pairing the product with another popular food or drink item. Pringles is opting for the latter tactic: Pairing Pringles with Pringles . As Ad Age reports, “Flavor stacking” is going to be the subject of Pringles’ Super Bowl ad, which will star “Saturday Night Live” actor Bill Hader. Apparently there are “about 267,720” stacks to create by combining the different Pringles flavors. If the big game spot takes off as a new eating behavior, it’ll be a big win for Pringles as flavor stacking obviously requires consumers to purchase more than just a single tube.
Best of the rest Facebook has appointed Kenneth Chenault, the outgoing CEO of American Express, to its board. In announcing the appointment, Mark Zuckerberg said, “He has unique expertise in areas I believe Facebook needs to learn and improve—customer service, direct commerce, and building a trusted brand.” [ Recode ]
Spotify has launched a new platform called Spotlight that will showcase news, sports and culture programming from publishers including BuzzFeed and Refinery29. [ Bloomberg ]
Ross Levinsohn, the newly installed publisher of the Los Angeles Times, is under investigation by parent company Tronc after a report that he had been a defendant in two sexual harassment lawsuits and allegations of questionable behavior earlier in his career. He hasn’t been suspended. [ NPR ]
A look at the growing wave of malicious mobile redirect ads that are plaguing publishers big and small. [ Fast Company ]
Demand-side platforms are under pressure to adapt in order to comply with Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation. [ Digiday ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com