SAN DIEGO, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BAM Communications, a California-based communications firm, today announced its appointment of Saramaya Penacho to director of the firm's growing health tech practice. Penacho will lead BAM's marketing and communications campaigns and team for clients in enterprise and consumer healthcare technology, as well as related wellness and science industries.
"Saramaya's experience at the intersection of healthcare and technology, for global companies and startups alike, makes her a great fit to develop this key area of growth for BAM," said Beck Bamberger, BAM founder and CEO.
Penacho was previously a senior manager in BAM's San Diego headquarters. She will remain based in San Diego and report to senior vice president Katie Pierini. Prior to BAM, Penacho worked for Edelman, the largest global communications marketing firm, where she led award-winning earned, paid, owned and social communications campaigns for B2B and B2C Fortune 100 brands in healthcare insurance, cybersecurity, telecommunication and energy.
"The aging population and diversifying generational demands provide unique opportunities in healthcare technology. We're seeing companies in cybersecurity, transportation and cryptocurrency, among other sectors, intersect with healthcare and the care continuum," said Penacho. "I'm thrilled to drive this practice as one that uniquely understands the health tech convergence in storytelling."
"The growth of the health tech market has contributed to BAM Communications' own rapid expansion, and Saramaya's exemplary client servicing and team leadership skills make her an ideal fit for the needs of our clients," said Pierini. "We nearly doubled in size in 2017, and we look forward to Saramaya's talent helping us further contribute to our clients' successes as we continue to grow along with them."
Penacho will also be responsible for attracting and developing top talent to support a roster of existing leading health tech brands, which are in medical device security, genomic databases, biosensors and artificial intelligence.
About BAM Communications
BAM Communications is a communications firm with offices in San Diego, California and New York City. Founded in 2008, the company offers forward thinking public relations strategy planning, media relations, and expert positioning to clients. BAM's mission is to shape the stories of barrier breaking technology and enterprise innovation companies, prompting rapid scalability, garnering investment dollars and spurring market dominance.
For more information, visit www.bamcommunications.biz and follow us on Twitter , Facebook , or LinkedIn .
Contact: Mike Melvin
BAM Communications
267-353-5725
mike@bamcommunications.biz
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bam-communications-appoints-saramaya-penacho-to-lead-health-tech-practice-300589677.html
SOURCE BAM Communications