BOCA RATON, Fla., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cogint, Inc. (NASDAQ: COGT), a leading provider of information and performance marketing solutions, today announced the appointment of blockchain and cryptocurrency expert David Drake as Chairman of the Strategic Advisory Board of the company's new blockchain division, Red Violet Blockchain and Analytical Solutions.
David Drake is a Founder and Chairman of LDJ Capital, a multi-family office which deals in funds worldwide with access to over $1.5 trillion in assets, and maintains over 50+ global directors and family office partners. Mr. Drake is a thought leader and prominent advisor in the blockchain, cryptocurrency and Initial Coin Offering markets. Previously, Mr. Drake collaborated on the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) to create new laws underlying fundraising in the U.S. for all Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs). Mr. Drake's cryptocurrency hedge funds hold crypto, ICOs, and fintech equity as seed investments to assist new offerings to be made via ICOs. Mr. Drake was born in Sweden and is fluent in six languages. He holds an MBA in Finance and an MA in International Law and Economics from George Washington University.
"Following the recent launch of our blockchain and analytics division, Red Violet Blockchain and Analytical Solutions, we are excited to work with David to assist us in seizing the significant opportunities in front of us," commented Derek Dubner, CEO of cogint. "David is an expert in blockchain and its many business applications and we believe his leadership in the space will advance our initiatives significantly."
"I am very excited to lead the strategic advisory board of Red Violet Blockchain and Analytical Solutions," said Mr. Drake. "Red Violet's identity verification and Know Your Customer solutions, and analytical capabilities, have wide-ranging applications across the blockchain landscape and I look forward to driving Red Violet's expansion."
About cogint™
At cogint, we believe that time is your most valuable asset. Through powerful analytics, we transform data into intelligence, in a fast and efficient manner, so that our clients can spend their time on what matters most – running their organizations with confidence. Through leading-edge, proprietary technology and a massive data repository, our data and analytical solutions harness the power of data fusion, uncovering the relevance of disparate data points and converting them into comprehensive and insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business, from managing risk, conducting investigations, identifying fraud and abuse, and collecting debts, to identifying and acquiring new customers. At cogint, we are dedicated to making the world a safer place, to reducing the cost of doing business, and to enhancing the consumer experience.
RELATED LINKS: http://www.cogint.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), which statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "plans," "projects," "will," "may," "anticipate," "believes," "should," "intends," "estimates," and other words of similar meaning. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict, are beyond our control and which may cause results to differ materially from expectations, including whether Mr. Drake's leadership will advance cogint's blockchain and other initiatives and expansion and whether Red Violet's identity verification and Know Your Customer solutions, and analytical capabilities, have wide-ranging applications across the blockchain landscape. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on our expectations as of the date of this press release and speak only as of the date of this press release and are advised to consider the factors listed above together with the additional factors under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be supplemented or amended by the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Contact Information:
Media Contact:
Gabriella Velez
North 6th Agency
212.334.9753 ext. 137
cogint@n6a.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Cogint, Inc.
Aaron Solomon, 561-757-4054
SVP Finance and Administration
aaron.solomon@cogint.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cogint-appoints-blockchain-industry-veteran-david-drake-as-chairman-of-strategic-advisory-board-of-blockchain-division-300581247.html
SOURCE Cogint, Inc.