SAN DIEGO & WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Shareholder rights law firm Robbins Arroyo LLP announces that investors filed a class action complaint against Tesaro, Inc. (NasdaqGS: TSRO). The complaint is brought on behalf of all purchasers of Tesaro securities between March 14, 2016 and January 12, 2018, for alleged violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by Tesaro's officers and directors. Tesaro is an oncology-focused biopharmaceutical company that develops cancer therapeutics and oncology supportive care products in the United States. Tesaro's product portfolio includes Varubi, which helps prevent chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting ("CINV").
View this information on the law firm's Shareholder Rights Blog: www.robbinsarroyo.com/tesaro-inc
Tesaro Accused of Failing to Reveal Substantial Health Risks Associated with its Drug
According to the complaint, Tesaro officials spoke promisingly about Varubi IV— an intravenous formulation of its existing oral version of Varubi— in the company's public filings, stating that Tesaro intended to establish the drug as part of the standard of care for the prevention of CINV. On October 25, 2017, Tesaro announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Varubi IV, calling it a "significant milestone" for the company and a "unique, easy-to-use option that fits well into the standard operating practices of a chemotherapy clinic or hospital." It therefore came as a surprise when Tesaro announced on January 12, 2018, that it received reports of "[a]naphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, and other serious hypersensitivity reactions… in the postmarketing setting, some requiring hospitalization" during or soon after the infusion of Varubi injectable emulsion. Tesaro further revealed that it issued a Dear Healthcare Professional letter to ensure that patients and healthcare professionals are aware the drug's label had been updated. On this news, Tesaro's stock fell $4.07 per share, or 5.85%, to close at $65.52 per share on January 16, 2018, and continues to decline.
Tesaro Shareholders Have Legal Options
Concerned shareholders who would like more information about their rights and potential remedies can contact attorney Leonid Kandinov at (800) 350-6003, LKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com , or via the shareholder information form on the firm's website.
Robbins Arroyo LLP is a nationally recognized leader in shareholder rights law. The firm represents individual and institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits, and has helped its clients realize more than $1 billion of value for themselves and the companies in which they have invested.
Attorney Advertising. Past results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005742/en/
Robbins Arroyo LLP
Leonid Kandinov
(619) 525-3990 or Toll Free (800) 350-6003
LKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com
www.robbinsarroyo.com
Source: Robbins Arroyo LLP