WASHINGTON, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ankura announced today the completion of a strategic combination with Aegis Compliance & Ethics Center LLP , a pre-eminent US healthcare compliance services firm widely recognized for providing leading industrywide compliance and privacy-related services and for its strength in the clinical research arena.
Since 2002, Aegis has assisted over 300 organizations with compliance-related services. Aegis has worked with 20 percent of all US hospitals and provided services to more than half of existing US medical schools. Joining Ankura as senior managing directors are Brian D. Annulis , Julie Colasacco , Ryan D. Meade , Steven W. Ortquist , Michael C. Roach , and Debbie Troklus . Dwight Claustre , Lea Fourkiller , K. Jane Hohn , and Gregory Kerr also join Ankura as managing directors along with 47 other highly qualified professionals.
In addition to the team's healthcare and clinical research compliance expertise, Aegis brings a range of cross-industry compliance-related capabilities covering the spectrum of enterprise risk management, compliance and ethics, and monitoring and independent oversight services. The team, combined with Ankura's existing healthcare compliance services led by F. Lisa Murtha , gives Ankura the market-leading team to assist healthcare clients.
Ankura Chief Executive Officer Roger Carlile said, "This combination is another important step in Ankura's journey to build a unique business advisory firm, based on a collaborative culture and known for how we solve challenges. The Aegis team holds these same ideals and we are very pleased to have them join the growing Ankura community. Bringing this group of recognized experts together with our own healthcare compliance leaders expands Ankura's ability to serve clients as well as continue to build market-leading teams by attracting, developing, and retaining the very best talent."
Ms. Murtha stated, "Since first meeting Ryan Meade, I have watched Aegis develop into the strongest healthcare research compliance team in the industry. These subject-matter experts are also thought leaders who work closely with the Health Care Compliance Association and the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics, and many of them also actively participate as faculty at Loyola, Drexel and other major academic centers and law schools."
Mr. Meade added, "The future of healthcare is research and science. Helping our clients succeed in that future reality requires the addition of the broad range of skills found at Ankura. Integrating Aegis' expertise in healthcare with Ankura's, including its rich data analytics expertise, makes for a new capability never seen before in the market."
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ankura-announces-strategic-combination-with-aegis-compliance--ethics-center-llp-300585798.html
SOURCE Ankura