Unique Three Phase Approach Maximizes Equity Value & Liquidity Options
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- ICR Capital, a transaction advisory firm and affiliate of ICR, a leading strategic communications agency, today announced recent IPO and follow-on offering advisory assignments. The firm also announced the expansion of its senior leadership team and its unique approach to maximizing transaction value and liquidity prospects for private shareholders.
Over the last several quarters, ICR Capital’s senior team has delivered advisory services for the following transactions with numerous other mandates under contract:
IPO Advisory – Altair Engineering, Alteryx, Appian, Bandwidth, Camping World Holdings, CarGurus, FAT Brands, Funko, Inc., MongoDB, MuleSoft, SailPoint, and Yext Follow-on Offerings – Alteryx, Appian and Everbridge
More generally, ICR has worked on roughly 300 IPOs over the last 10 years, establishing strong market leadership with respect to preparing private companies for their transition to life as a public company. This experience spans numerous industry groups including technology, consumer, healthcare, financial services, business services, energy, real estate, and industrials among others.
ICR Capital’s senior leadership team includes David Galper, CEO, who has originated more than 75 equity offerings, M&A advisory mandates and leveraged finance transactions across a wide range of industries during his career. He formerly served as a founding member of the Equity Capital Markets Execution Group at Lehman Brothers. Adding to the depth of the senior leadership team is Tim Dolan, a seasoned capital markets professional with firms such as Alex. Brown & Sons and Deutsche Bank prior to his 14 years with ICR. Tim has been appointed Vice Chairman of ICR Capital and has served as a senior advisor on over 100 technology, media and telecom IPOs.
ICR Capital’s senior team also includes sector experts such as Scott Van Winkle in food, beverage and healthy living and Evelyn Infurna in REITs and financial services. ICR Capital is the only transaction advisor where industry-focused transaction teams integrate with sector experts in investor relations, public relations, crises management, digital branding, video production and social media.
David Galper, CEO of ICR Capital stated, “While ICR has always been the leading advisor to private companies entering the IPO process, we formally productized our offering with the launch of ICR Capital in late 2015. We have seen significant progress thus far by leveraging our integrated offering, which we believe creates substantial value for our clients.”
Galper continued, “Ultimately issuers and sponsors deserve a more robust advisory solution, one that expertly crafts the narrative and positions the company with all stakeholders prior to the IPO process execution, and provides the investor communications, media strategy and social media support necessary to be an exceptional public company post-pricing. This approach better manages risk and uniquely maximizes value into an ultimate liquidity event.”
Unique Approach to Transaction Advisory
“We have invested aggressively to establish ICR Capital as a leading transaction advisory firm,” said Tom Ryan, CEO of ICR. “As always, our goal was to build on our existing offerings, and in this case, combine both industry and transaction experience with an integrated team of communications professionals that work together to shape the narrative across all constituents and channels. Ultimately, what we have proven over the last 20 years is that positioning and communicating a transaction is every bit as important as how the transaction is structured.”
Phase One of ICR Capital’s advisory approach begins 12 to 24 months preceding banker and underwriter selection. An integrated advisory team, including investor relations and public relations, works with clients to craft the corporate message and raise awareness among key constituents in the investment community and the media.
Phase Two of the process, led by ICR Capital, provides end-to-end process management for the transaction, from underwriter selection and syndicate structure to investor targeting, pricing and allocation activities. In addition, the team’s public relations experts drive employee and other stakeholder communication to optimize the listing day experience. ICR also specializes in, and produces long form or short IPO roadshow videos that uniquely and consistently articulate corporate vision and strategy. Bringing all of these capabilities together provides clients with a more effective and efficient way to optimize and communicate any transaction.
Phase Three manages risk by providing long-term strategic communications support following a transaction, with the goal of optimizing valuation and providing private shareholders with attractive opportunities to monetize their investments. ICR’s communications practice was ranked as the fifth largest in North America* and is one of the largest in the world, a critical differentiator.
About ICR
Established in 1998, ICR partners with companies to optimize transactions through ICR Capital and executes strategic communications programs that achieve business goals, build credibility and enhance long-term enterprise value. The firm’s highly differentiated service model, which pairs capital markets veterans with senior communications professionals, brings deep sector knowledge and relationships to more than 550 clients in approximately 20 industries. Today, ICR is one of the largest and most experienced independent communications and advisory firms in North America maintaining offices in New York, Norwalk, Los Angeles, Boston, San Francisco, Hong Kong and Beijing.
About ICR Capital
ICR Capital, member FINRA/SIPC, a registered broker-dealer affiliate of ICR, provides transaction advisory services related to IPO execution as well as follow-on and convertible notes offerings. The firm provides independent advice on all aspects of the offering process to help clients make better informed decisions. ICR Capital’s advisory expertise in combination with ICR’s industry leading communications capabilities seeks to ensure that clients achieve their transaction objectives, while establishing a foundation to maximize long-term equity value.
Learn more at www.icrinc.com . Follow us on Twitter at @ICRPR .
*Based on O’Dwyers 2017 rankings
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005655/en/
ICR
Mike Fox, 203-682-8218
Michael.Fox@icrinc.com
Source: ICR