SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sidley Austin LLP is pleased to announce that Brian Stretch, current U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California, will join the firm in San Francisco as a partner in its White Collar: Government Litigation & Investigations practice. Mr. Stretch will focus his practice on the full range of federal enforcement and internal investigation matters, with a particular emphasis on corporate investigations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and criminal defense matters.
Mr. Stretch is a highly accomplished lawyer with a distinguished history of public service and prosecution of criminal matters. During his 18-year tenure in the U.S. Attorney’s office, Mr. Stretch has held various high-level positions, including that of U.S. Attorney, First Assistant U.S. Attorney and Chief of its Criminal Division. Mr. Stretch was appointed to the U.S. Attorney post by the Chief Judge of the Northern District. As the U.S. Attorney, he leads an office of over 130 lawyers and other professionals in addition to personally handling an array of criminal prosecutions.
Prior to joining the U.S. Attorney’s office, Mr. Stretch served as a Deputy District Attorney (DA) in the Marin County District Attorney’s Office. As a Deputy DA, he participated in all aspects of civil and criminal litigation, including investigation, charging, discovery, negotiation and settlement.
During his distinguished career, Mr. Stretch has personally tried over three dozen jury trials to verdict and argued three appeals before the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
“Brian’s substantial experience as a first chair trial lawyer in high-stakes cases will add value to the San Francisco office as well as to the robust national practice,” said Sharon Flanagan, managing partner of Sidley’s San Francisco office and member of its Executive Committee. “We look forward to drawing from his tremendous knowledge to advise our clients facing government investigations and other complex white collar matters.”
With 2,000 lawyers in 20 offices around the globe, Sidley is a premier legal adviser for clients across the spectrum of industries. Follow Sidley on Twitter @SidleyLaw .
For purposes of the New York State Bar rules, this press release may be considered Attorney Advertising and our headquarters are Sidley Austin LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, +1 212 839 5300; One South Dearborn, Chicago, IL 60603, +1 312 853 7000; and 1501 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005, +1 202 736 8000.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005901/en/
Sidley Austin LLP
Kellie Mullins, Director, Public Relations
+1 312 456 8716
kmullins@sidley.com
Source: Sidley Austin LLP