HAYWARD, Calif., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:ANTH) today announced the appointment of Patrick Murphy as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. Patrick brings over 35 years of experience in global manufacturing, product development, and process/analytical development to Anthera. In his new role, Patrick will oversee the manufacturing commercial scale-up of Sollpura. Sollpura is currently in a Phase 3 study, “RESULT”, for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (“EPI”) in patients with Cystic Fibrosis.
“We are very excited to have Patrick join the Anthera team as we continue to build our commercial manufacturing capabilities,” said Craig Thompson, President & Chief Executive Officer of Anthera. “Patrick’s experience will be essential as we prepare for BLA filing and subsequently, the commercial launch of Sollpura.”
Most recently, Patrick served as Vice President, Manufacturing at Versartis, Inc. Previously, he served as Vice President of Operations and Site Head at Solstice Neurosciences Inc. where he oversaw the worldwide supply and quality of Myobloc®/NeuroBloc® (Botulinum Toxin Type B) Injectable Solution. Patrick also served as Vice President of Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls (CMC) and Operations at Acologix, Inc., Senior Vice President of Production Services of Abgenix Inc., and held various positions in manufacturing and operations at Genentech, including Director of Strategic Operations, over a 19-year period. Patrick holds a Bachelor of Science, Biochemistry from State University of New York, Binghamton.
About Anthera Pharmaceuticals
Anthera Pharmaceuticals is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing products to treat serious and life-threatening diseases, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and B-cell associated renal diseases. Additional information on Anthera can be found at www.anthera.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
Any statements contained in this press release that refer to future events or other non-historical matters, including statements that are preceded by, followed by, or that include such words as "estimate," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "goal," "expect," "project," or similar statements, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on Anthera's expectations as of the date of this press release and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to those set forth in Anthera's public filings with the SEC, including Anthera's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Anthera disclaims any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
CONTACT:
Investor Relations of Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ir@anthera.com
For Media Inquiries:
Frannie Marmorstein, 305-567-0821
frannie.marmorstein@rbbcommunications.com
www.twitter.com/antherapharma
https://www.facebook.com/antherapharma/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/anthera-pharmaceuticals
Source: Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc .
Source:Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc.