LOS ALTOS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Three Bell Capital (Three Bell) and BPM LLP (BPM) announced today that they have entered a definitive agreement in which independent corporate retirement plan advisory firm Three Bell Capital will purchase retirement plan consulting business, BPM Advisors, Inc. The combined practice will represent one of the largest corporate retirement plan advisory firms in the San Francisco Bay Area, with total firm assets under management exceeding $1.2 billion.
“BPM is recognized as one of the top ten accounting firms in the west, with a phenomenal in-house corporate retirement plan practice,” said Three Bell CEO, Jon Porter . “We are excited about this newly formed partnership with BPM, the expanded depth and breadth of our team and capabilities it brings, and the opportunity to provide truly differentiated services and advice to our clients.”
Based in Silicon Valley, Three Bell Capital works with entrepreneurs, venture capital firms, and high-growth technology companies to establish and manage their 401(k), cash balance and deferred comp plans, while developing comprehensive financial plans for company founders and executives. Three Bell Capital ranked #1 on the 2017 Top 100 Emerging Wealth Management Firms in the U.S. by Forbes.
“I am excited for what the future holds,” said Jenise Gaskin , Advisory Partner at BPM and President of BPM Advisors, Inc. “I am sad to see the great team of BPM Advisors leave us but they are joining a wonderful firm. I know they will all be very successful and I look forward to working closely with the Three Bell team.”
“Our decision to pursue this transition was centered on improving and strengthening our ability to deliver the best possible service to our clients,” added Nick Steiner , BPM’s Advisory Practice Group Leader. “This collaboration provides our 401(k) clients with a dedicated team of independent retirement plan advisors, while at the same time allowing Three Bell clients to leverage BPM’s full suite of services.”
Most recently, BPM was named a Best of Accounting™ winner for the second year in a row – an honor less than 1% of all accounting firms in the U.S. and Canada earn, for providing exemplary client service.
About Three Bell Capital
Founded in 2011, and headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, Three Bell Capital provides comprehensive wealth management and retirement plan services to the entrepreneurial community, with a particular emphasis on representing founders and early executives, as well as high growth technology companies and the venture firms that finance them. For clients seeking private company liquidity, Three Bell’s principals work as representatives of a FINRA-registered broker dealer to facilitate private stock transactions, primarily for high-demand, high-growth, pre-IPO private companies. For more information, please visit www.three-bell.com .
About BPM
Founded in 1986, BPM LLP is one of the largest California-based public accounting and advisory firms, ranked as one of the 50 major firms in the country. With six offices across the Bay Area – as well as offices in Oregon, Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands – we serve emerging, mid-cap, and closely-held businesses as well as high-net-worth individuals in a broad reach of industries. BPM’s International Tax Practice is one of the largest on the West Coast and its well-recognized SEC Practice serves approximately 35 public reporting companies. Most recently, 2018 Vault Accounting 50 ranked BPM the #1 Firm for Diversity and Minorities, and #21 for Best Accounting Firm to Work For. To learn more, visit us at bpmcpa.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005370/en/
Three Bell Capital
Jon Porter
jon@three-bell.com
Source: Three Bell Capital