CONSHOHOCKEN, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- IKEA, the world’s leading home furnishings retailer, today announced the appointment of Samantha Gravina as manager of its future Milwaukee-area store opening summer 2018 in Oak Creek, WI.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005323/en/
Chicago-area IKEA Manager, Samantha Gravina to Lead IKEA Oak Creek (Photo: Business Wire)
“We are very excited about opening a Milwaukee-area store, and have the utmost confidence in Samantha’s ability to lead the team,” said IKEA U.S. president Lars Petersson. “Her in-depth IKEA experience and knowledge from both Chicago-area stores qualifies her to best meet Wisconsin customers’ needs and represents what we hope to bring to the future IKEA Oak Creek.”
“IKEA recognizes the customer base that exists in Wisconsin, and I look forward to providing the 206,000 existing customers as well as future new customers with a store of their own,” Gravina said. “At the same time, I also am excited about growing IKEA culture among new co-workers from the Milwaukee area.”
Chicago native Gravina joined IKEA in 2000 at IKEA Schaumburg as a part-time furniture sales co-worker. Gravina quickly moved into the IKEA leadership team full-time at both IKEA Schaumburg and IKEA Bolingbrook as the local marketing specialist responsible for both stores. She shifted focus from marketing to sales in 2008 by serving as deputy sales manager at IKEA Schaumburg until being promoted to sales manager there two years later. In 2017, she became acting store manager at IKEA Bolingbrook, where she served until she was appointed store manager of the future IKEA Oak Creek.
The 290,000-square-foot future IKEA Oak Creek is being built on 29 acres along Interstate 94, northwest of the Drexel Avenue exit, approximately 12 miles south of downtown Milwaukee. Until IKEA Oak Creek opens as the 48 th U.S. IKEA store and first in Wisconsin, local customers can shop at the closest IKEA stores: Chicago-area IKEA Bolingbrook and IKEA Schaumburg, and Twin Cities-area IKEA Bloomington, MN; or online at IKEA-USA.com.
Since its 1943 founding in Sweden, IKEA has offered home furnishings of good design and function at low prices so the majority of people can afford them. There are currently 412 IKEA stores in 49 countries, including 47 in the U.S. IKEA has been ranked among “Best Companies to Work For” and, as further investment in its coworkers, has raised its own minimum wage twice in two years. IKEA incorporates sustainability into day-to-day business and supports initiatives that benefit children and the environment. For more information see IKEA-USA.com , @IKEAUSANews , @IKEAUSA or IKEAUSA on Facebook , YouTube , Instagram and Pinterest .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005323/en/
IKEA
Latisha Bracy, Expansion Public Affairs
(610) 834-0180, x. 5615
Source: IKEA