NEW YORK, The National Association for Multi-ethnicity in Communications (NAMIC) today announced that president and CEO, Eglon E. Simons, is retiring from the organization after more than three years at the helm.
"The NAMIC board of directors appreciates Eglon's leadership and his many contributions to NAMIC and the cable and telecommunications industry. We look forward to working with him during the transition and wish him the best in his retirement," said Michelle Rice , chairman of the NAMIC board of directors.
Since 2014, Simons has led the organization through a period of steady growth including the expansion to 18 chapters and more than 3,500 members.
"We are grateful to Eglon for his longstanding passion for and commitment to diversity and inclusion, and for the leadership he provided NAMIC during this dynamic time in our industry," said David L. Cohen , Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer of Comcast Corporation and member of NAMIC board of advisors. "We wish him well in his retirement and remain committed to advancing the mission of NAMIC as we enter a new chapter."
Simons has agreed to stay on as the NAMIC board of directors begins its search for the next CEO.
"I've had an exciting and enjoyable time with NAMIC - and its passionate and dedicated staff - growing the organization. I am looking forward to working with NAMIC's board and the staff on the transition and to implement initiatives and partnerships focused on NAMIC's future and the role it will play in maintaining its mission to advocate, empower and educate for all people, especially people of color," said Simons .
A strong and progressive leader, Simons' career in media and communications has spanned more than 30 years. Upon earning an MBA from Harvard Business School, Simons joined the staff at CBS New York. After holding several managerial positions, Simons concluded his 13-year run with the network as Vice President of Sales and Marketing for the CBS Television Stations Division. In 1990, Simons embarked on a 21-year run with Cablevision Systems Corporation as Director of New York Sales for its Cable Networks unit. Simons began serving as Vice President and General Manager of New York Interconnect in 1992 and subsequently, was promoted in 1995, to Senior Vice President and General Manager. Simons was named Executive Vice President of Cablevision's Rainbow Advertising Sales Company in 2002, a senior management role he fulfilled until his retirement from Cablevision Systems Corporation in 2011. Simons volunteers regularly with his community, focusing on organizations that advocate for people with learning disabilities. He is passionate about mentoring and participates avidly in mentoring programs.
ABOUT NAMIC
NAMIC (National Association for Multi-ethnicity in Communications) is the premier organization focusing on cultural diversity, equity and inclusion in the communications industry. More than 3,500 professionals belong to a network of 18 chapters nationwide. Through initiatives that target leadership development, advocacy and empowerment, NAMIC collaborates with industry partners to grow and nurture a workforce that reflects the cultural richness of the populations served. Please visit www.namic.com for more information about NAMIC and its many opportunities.
NAMIC MEDIA CONTACTS:
Wanita Niehaus: 202-643-2765 or wanita.niehaus@namic.com
 with multimedia: releases/eglon-e-simons-retires-as-president-ceo-of-namic-after-three-year-success-story-300583432.html
SOURCE NAMIC