January 6, 2018 / 9:06 PM / Updated 14 minutes ago Mourinho is a 'little man', says Chelsea's Conte Reuters Staff 2 Min Read 
LONDON (Reuters) - Chelsea manager Antonio Conte continued his ongoing feud with Jose Mourinho on Saturday by calling the Manchester United manager “a little man”. Soccer Football - Premier League - Chelsea vs Brighton & Hove Albion - Stamford Bridge, London, Britain - December 26, 2017 Chelsea manager Antonio Conte at the end of the match REUTERS/Hannah Mckay 
Mourinho made a pointed comment about match-fixing during the week, a reference to the four-month suspension Conte was handed in the 2012-13 season for failing to report match-fixing at his previous club Siena. He was later cleared by an Italian court of any wrongdoing. 
“I think when you try to hurt a person, especially if you know very well the truth of what happens, the court proved my innocence, when you do this it means you are a little man,” Conte said after Chelsea’s 0-0 FA Cup third-round draw at Championship side Norwich City. 
“But this is the not the first time. He does this in the past and he continues to do this in the present.”Mourinho and Conte have never been friends but their relationship deteriorated this week after Mourinho spoke about some managers behaving “like a clown” on the touchline, which was taken as a reference to Conte and Liverpool’s Juergen Klopp. 
In response on Friday, the Chelsea manager accused the Portuguese of “senile dementia”, which led to Mourinho saying he had not mentioned any names. Soccer Football - FA Cup Third Round - Manchester United vs Derby County - Old Trafford, Manchester, Britain - January 5, 2018 Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff 
“This is his way, it is no surprise. We all know him,” Conte said. “Life will go on, I‘m not worried about him.” 
Conte refused to criticise his players after making nine changes for the match against Norwich. 
“It’s a bit frustrating. We knew the difficulty of the game. When you play away in this competition it’s not easy,” he said. 
”In the first half we had difficulty to attack but in the second half we created chances to score. 
“Norwich deserve to have another game. For us it’s not simple to add another game in the schedule. These are the rules though.” Reporting by Steve Tongue, editing by Ed Osmond