LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Benedict O. Kwon has joined the Orange County office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm's Corporate practice group, focusing on fund formation and taxation. Kwon joins Sheppard Mullin from Stradling.
"Ben is a terrific addition to the firm. He brings a significant level of fund formation and tax expertise to our growing fund formation practice and overall Corporate practice group," said Jon W. Newby, vice chairman of Sheppard Mullin.
Kwon’s practice focuses on private equity fund and hedge fund formation and structuring, as well as domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions. He has formed an array of private investment funds, including venture capital funds, real estate funds, private equity funds, mezzanine debt funds, hedge funds and film finance funds. In addition, he advises startup companies with respect to formation issues and efficient tax structuring, limited liability company formation and structuring, and general partnership and corporate tax issues. He also has deep experience counseling clients on Investment Adviser Act compliance issues.
"I am thrilled to join Sheppard Mullin. I have been impressed by the firm’s commitment to growing its corporate practice, specifically in the area of fund formation, as well as its entrepreneurial culture and thriving Orange County office," commented Kwon.
Kwon received a J.D. in 1999 from Northwestern University School of Law and a B.A. in 1994 from the University of Illinois. He co-chairs the American Bar Association’s Subcommittee on Private Equity and Venture Capital Fund Formation.
Sheppard Mullin has 78 attorneys based in its Orange County office. The firm’s Corporate practice group includes 150 attorneys firmwide.
About Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP
Sheppard Mullin is a full service Global 100 firm with 780 attorneys in 15 offices located in the United States, Europe and Asia. Since 1927, companies have turned to Sheppard Mullin to handle corporate and technology matters, high stakes litigation and complex financial transactions. In the U.S., the firm's clients include more than half of the Fortune 100. For more information, please visit www.sheppardmullin.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006365/en/
Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP
JON NEWBY
(310) 228-3737
or
KARA EYER
(312) 499-0533
Source: Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP