WARREN, N.J., Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Prevalent, Inc., the leader in Third-Party Risk Management and Vendor Threat Intelligence, today announced the appointment of Karen Tegan Padir as the Company's new Chief Product Officer (CPO).
"As Chief Product Officer, Karen will own the product management and development functions at Prevalent as well as lead the vision and execution of our product strategy to continually drive our leadership forward," said Jonathan Dambrot, Prevalent CEO and Co-Founder. "Her experience, vision, and innovative spirit will have a tremendous impact for our current and future customers."
Padir is a 25-year veteran within the software industry, having served a multitude of successful technology and leadership roles with organizations including Progress, Sun Microsystems, Red Hat, and EnterpriseDB. Early on in her career, she had a passion for understanding the big picture of how people interact with technology in business. She made it her mission to experience firsthand all aspects of this Business-IT connection—from product inception, development, and delivery through customer deployment and support.
As the President of Application Development & Deployment Business at Progress, Padir was responsible for the strategy and growth of Progress's application development assets, including Telerik, Modulus, Rollbase, and the Pacific Platform; including P&L responsibility for the business unit which delivered 40% contribution margin. At EnterpriseDB, she was responsible for all company products, including product design and strategy, product management, engineering, quality, release management, technical publications, as well as global services, support, and training. At Sun Microsystems, Karen was Senior Vice President for MySQL & Software Infrastructure, responsible for all aspects of the global software business including the market leading Identity Management products for single sign on and user and role provisioning including OpenSSO and OpenDS; earlier in her Sun Microsystems career, Padir was one of the founding members of the J2EE organization. She managed the creation of specifications, compatibility test suites, blueprints and guided implementations of Java in the enterprise. Under her leadership, Glassfish became the industry's most used Java EE compatible application server with over 50 million downloads
"Prevalent is 100% focused on Third Party Risk Management and is the only integrated solution that includes vendor assessment and continuous threat monitoring in one platform," said Padir. "I'm excited to help the company drive further product growth and innovative solutions that help global enterprises meet regulatory requirements and mitigate risks posed by working with Third Parties."
About Prevalent Inc.
Named a Leader in the 2017 Gartner Magic Quadrant for IT Vendor Risk Management, Prevalent is helping global organizations manage and monitor the security threats and risks associated with third and fourth-party vendors. Prevalent introduced the only unified platform for Third-Party Risk Management and the first vendor evidence sharing portal that enables collaboration between both enterprises and vendors. Prevalent won gold in the IT World Awards Vendor Risk Management product category and was named the Fastest Growing Cybersecurity Company in the 2017 Cybersecurity Excellence Awards. For more information regarding Prevalent, visit www.prevalent.net .
Contact Information
Betsy J. Walker
Senior Director, Marketing
Prevalent Inc.
908-212-1775
bwalker@prevalent.net
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/prevalent-expands-executive-team-with-chief-product-officer-300591229.html
SOURCE Prevalent, Inc.