ISELIN, N.J., Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Pure Grown Diamonds, the pioneers in the above earth diamond industry and the largest selling grown diamond brand in the United States, announces Joseph Green as Senior VP of Independent Sales, effective immediately.
Mr. Green brings to Pure Grown Diamonds his 20+ years of experience as a dedicated and influential leader to his key areas of oversight including: sales management, distribution networks, branding, and strategic planning.
Most recently, he was responsible for directing the independent channel activities, go-to-market planning and strategic development as the Executive Vice President of Sales for Leo Schachter Diamond Company. Previously, Mr. Green served as Senior Vice President of Frederick Goldman Inc. developing strategic plans for the division and its brands: Goldman, ArtCarved Bridal, Triton and Diana as well as managing sales for Scott Kay. In addition, Mr. Green previously served as Vice President of Sales with Ritani LLC and was responsible for leading Ritani LLC's national sales force, growing national independent sales and developing the Ritani brand.
"The independent jeweler is the backbone of the American jewelry retail industry and bringing Joseph on board shows our continued commitment to them and the recognition that partnering with them in the right way is important to us," says Suraj Mehta, Director of Pure Grown Diamonds. "Joseph will lead the team that services the independents at Pure Grown Diamonds and will focus on developing overall sales strategy to maximize business development with our customers."
In his new position, Mr. Green will lead the independent sales for Pure Grown Diamonds. He will focus on developing overall sales strategy, driving profitability as well as working to maximize business development opportunities.
For more information or additional press inquiries, please contact Kaitlin Derkach, at kaitlin@thepromofact.com , (212) 217-9065.
ABOUT PURE GROWN DIAMONDS
Conceived in 2013, Pure Grown Diamonds (PGD) has been growing steadily in USA's multi-brand jewelry retail stores. It distinguishes itself sharply in the very source of its diamonds – they are grown above the earth using cutting edge technology in an environment that mimics nature below the earth. PGD's diamonds bring to every consumer the opportunity to possess their dream diamond, only bigger and brighter than ever before.
Pure Grown Diamonds are very high-quality Type IIa diamond that can go up to 5 carat stone in cut and polished form. Since these diamonds are sustainably grown above earth with fair production practices, they are ethical in the truest sense and leave a significantly smaller carbon footprint when compared to mined diamonds. To discover more about the brand please visit, http://puregrowndiamonds.com/ .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pure-grown-diamonds-adds-to-senior-management-team-senior-vp-of-independent-sales-joseph-green-300585312.html
SOURCE Pure Grown Diamonds Inc.