Acquisition Integrates Next-Generation Policy Administration System into iPipeline’s Industry-Leading Platform
EXTON, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- iPipeline® – a leading provider of cloud-based software solutions for the financial services industry – today announced the acquisition of TCP LifeSystems, a software solutions provider to life and pensions insurance companies in the US, UK, Canada, and Ireland. TCP’s digital Policy Administration System (PAS) module offers billing, claims, reinsurance, a policyholder portal, and distribution management. By combining Resonant™ underwriting, iGO® e-App and DocFast® for e-Delivery with the new PAS module, iPipeline is better able to support the digital ambitions of its customers. The PAS is currently in use with major providers of life insurance within the UK and Ireland.
“The acquisition of TCP LifeSystems marks our immediate entrance into the PAS segment of the market place and represents iPipeline’s commitment to deliver the industry’s most comprehensive and modern platform for the financial services industry. Consumer expectations have changed, and they want a faster self-service and digital experience. This reality applies to our industry which is often labelled as being slow to adapt,” said Tim Wallace, CEO. “Our customers’ investments in transformative technology are key to meeting the industry’s evolving needs and to ensuring consumer expectations are met by offering financial solutions when they need them. We are excited about the acquisition and the potential to deliver increasing value to our customers by adding integrated PAS to our platform.”
“iPipeline has repeatedly demonstrated the value of its innovations within North America and the UK, positively impacting the growth of the financial services industry. TCP LifeSystems’ digital PAS technology has been developed to maximize efficiency and improve the customer journey, and we see this addition nicely complementing iPipeline’s industry-leading offerings,” said Ashley Hale, Managing Director, TCP LifeSystems. “By bringing iPipeline and TCP LifeSystems together, we will be able to further streamline processes to deliver outstanding value for the carrier, distributor, agent, and consumer.”
To learn how you can implement our PAS module to streamline and accelerate your business acquisition and management requirements and better engage the digital customer, contact sales@ipipeline.com or call 1-800-758-0824, option 2.
About TCP LifeSystems
Since 1989, TCP LifeSystems have been delivering software solutions to Life and Pensions Insurance companies. These clients have relied on our software to manage several million customer transactions every year. We are extremely active in the industry, being passionate about the business we serve and the role technology has to play in the future of the Financial Services market. Our approach is genuinely very different to other suppliers, and our purpose is simple... to ensure our clients gain genuine commercial advantage from the use of our software. Visit https://www.tcplifesystems.com/ .
About iPipeline
iPipeline is a leading provider of cloud-based software solutions for the financial services industry. Through our SaaS solutions, we accelerate and simplify sales, compliance, operations and support. We provide process automation and seamless integration between every participant in the financial services industry including carriers, agents, advisors, BGAs/IMOs, RIAs, banks, broker-dealers, securities/mutual fund firms, and consumers. Our innovative solutions enable automated processing throughout the business acquisition and continuity cycle.
iPipeline provides the process automation and seamless integration needed on a global basis to make a sale by aggregating more than 130 carriers, 1,200 distributors and financial institutions, and their agents and licensed advisors in a cloud-based environment. With headquarters in Exton, Pennsylvania, iPipeline has locations in Bromley (UK), Charlotte, Cheltenham (UK), Fort Lauderdale, Ontario (CA), Philadelphia, Pleasanton, Salt Lake City, and Vancouver. Save the date for iPipeline’s Connections 2018 User Meeting & Conference on March 18-20 at the ARIA in Las Vegas. Visit www.ipipeline.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005010/en/
For iPipeline:
Lisa Shea
Marketing
484-870-6234
lshea@ipipeline.com
Source: iPipeline