  6:30 a.m. ET Share 
Bunge had a market value of about $9.8 billion as of Friday afternoon Getty Images ADM and Bunge represent the “A” and “B” in the so-called ABCDs, the global commodity-trading companies that dominate the world-wide flow of basic foodstuffs. Minnesota-based Cargill Inc. and Louis Dreyfus Commodities, with its headquarters in the Netherlands, are the other two. 
By Dana Mattioli Jacob Bunge 
Archer Daniels Midland Co. has made a takeover approach to Bunge Ltd., according to people familiar with the matter, setting up a possible bidding war after Glencore PLC earlier made an overture to the agricultural powerhouse. 
Details of the ADM ADM, +1.19% approach are unclear, and it is possible neither company would succeed in buying Bunge BG, +11.37% , which had a market value of about $9.8 billion as of Friday afternoon. ADM’s valuation was $22.6 billion. 
Bunge shares were up 11% at 4 p.m. Friday after The Wall Street Journal reported the approach. 
Mining conglomerate Glencore GLNCY, -0.18% approached White Plains, N.Y.-based Bunge, which ranks among the world’s largest traders and processors of crops like soybeans and corn, the Journal reported in May. The two companies have a standstill arrangement that temporarily prevents Glencore from making a hostile bid for Bunge. It is unclear whether the expression of interest from ADM negates the standstill, which expires in coming weeks, and enables Glencore to make another move now. 
Glencore has been expected to re-engage with Bunge once the standstill expires, though it is unclear what its intentions are at present. 
A deal with Bunge would represent a strategic shift for Chicago-based ADM, which competes with Bunge in the business of buying, selling and processing crops. While ADM maintains one of the world’s largest agricultural trading networks, the company in recent years has prioritized investing in food ingredients and flavorings, which executives tout as more profitable and more stable than the sometimes-volatile grain industry.