AKRON, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bober Markey Fedorovich (BMF), a top 20 regional CPA and advisory firm, is pleased to announce the following promotions within its Northeast Ohio offices.
Bryant D. Petersen, MBA, ASA, CFE , to Senior Manager, Business Valuation/Litigation Support Services. Petersen specializes in forensic accounting, economic damage analysis, and business valuation, and has primarily been engaged by attorneys and law firms to assist them and their clients with financial and accounting-oriented issues, ranging from complex damage analyses to business valuation. He has been involved with various special projects, including analysis of an offshore Ponzi and investment scam, valuation of a business engaged in providing sub-prime financing and other non-traditional financing options for car dealerships. He has also evaluated and prepared rebuttal analyses evaluating economic damage claims in a matter involving real estate development, management, and option agreements, involving real estate with estimated value of over several hundred million dollars. Petersen is an Accredited Senior Appraiser (ASA) and maintains the Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) credential, which denotes proven expertise in business valuation and fraud examination.
James B. Skakun, CPA , to Manager, Taxation Services. Skakun focuses on the growth and continued success of the firm’s clients by delivering tax compliance and planning and best practices to closely-held and family owned businesses with a high growth mentality. Working extensively with multi-state companies, S corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies, Skakun is knowledgeable on intricate tax regulations and various compliance related matters. He works with business owners in redemption, sale and liquidation planning, as well as supporting negotiations with private equity-backed firms by providing insight into potential tax exposure for target companies. Skakun was named a 2016 recipient of the 30 for the Future award by the Greater Akron Chamber for his dynamic leadership and community service. He lends his time and efforts as a board member of Rebuilding Together Northeast Ohio, and through membership and volunteerism with the Young Professional Network of Akron and the Akron/Canton Foodbank Young Professionals . Skakun is a graduate of Torchbearers Akron Class of 2016 and currently serves as a member of the board.
Also receiving promotions:
Christa Seikel , to Senior Accountant, Assurance and Advisory Services Cheryl Myers , to Team Lead, Administrative Services
About Bober Markey Fedorovich
Founded in 1959, Bober Markey Fedorovich is a Top 20 independent CPA and business advisory firm in Northeast Ohio serving greater Akron, Cleveland and surrounding regions. Our clients span a variety of industries, many with multi-state and global operations. We specialize in accounting, audit, tax, litigation support, valuation and transaction advisory services, with focus on privately held businesses, private equity groups and SEC companies. BMF is a member of Allinial Global , Financial Consulting Group , and is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board . For more information, visit www.bmfcpa.com .
For high resolution image click here: http://www.ggcomm.com/BMF/Peterson.JPG
For high resolution image click here: http://www.ggcomm.com/BMF/Skakun.jpg
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006410/en/
Bober Markey Fedorovich
Karyn M. Sullivan, CPA, 330-255-2468
Chief Operating Officer
ksullivan@bmfcpa.com
Source: Bober Markey Fedorovich