Pictures | Wed Jan 31, 2018 | 7:33am   
President Trump delivers his first State of the Union address. REUTERS/Win McNamee/Pool Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 President Trump delivers his first State of the Union address. REUTERS/Win McNamee/Pool Close 
A British Airways aicraft flies in front of a full moon over London. REUTERS/Toby Melville Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 A British Airways aicraft flies in front of a full moon over London. REUTERS/Toby Melville Close 2 / 24 
Samuel Rodriguez (L) looks while his son Emanuel throws out a bucket of mud, while they unearth a vehicle,   hit the island in September 2017, in Utuado,   Wednesday, January 31, 2018 Samuel Rodriguez (L) looks while his son Emanuel throws out a bucket of mud, while they unearth a vehicle,   hit the island in September 2017, in Utuado,   3 / 24 
A farmer walks through a wheat field on a foggy winter morning on the outskirts of Jammu. REUTERS/Mukesh Gupta Reuters / Wednesday, January 31, 2018 A farmer walks through a wheat field on a foggy winter morning on the outskirts of Jammu. REUTERS/Mukesh Gupta Close 4 / 24 
A kurdish girl gestures during a protest against the Turkish attacks on Afrin in Qamishli, Syria. REUTERS/Rodi Said Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 A kurdish girl gestures during a protest against the Turkish attacks on Afrin in Qamishli, Syria. REUTERS/Rodi Said Close 5 / 24 
A supporter of Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) coalition jumps from a bus after riot police fired teargas canisters to disperse them after his swearing-in ceremony in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Isaac Biosse Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 A supporter of Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) coalition jumps from a bus after riot police fired teargas canisters to disperse them after his swearing-in ceremony in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Isaac Biosse Close 6 / 24 
A demonstrator confronts riot police during a rally in defense of the nationalization of lithium reserves in the country, in Santiago, Chile. REUTERS/Pablo Sanhueza Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A demonstrator confronts riot police during a rally in defense of the nationalization of lithium reserves in the country, in Santiago, Chile. REUTERS/Pablo Sanhueza Close 7 / 24 
The world's tallest man, Sultan Kosen and the shortest woman, Jyoti Amge walk in front of the Great Pyramids and the Sphinx of Giza on the outskirts of Cairo. REUTERS/Mohamed Zaki Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 The world's tallest man, Sultan Kosen and the shortest woman, Jyoti Amge walk in front of the Great Pyramids and the Sphinx of Giza on the outskirts of Cairo. REUTERS/Mohamed Zaki Close 8 / 24 
DACA recipient Javier Hernandez Kistte, 27, poses for a portrait outside his home in Los Angeles, California. Hernandez Kistte is a UC Irvine graduate who now works for a visual effects company. He came to the U.S. from Mexico City when he was eight... more Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 DACA recipient Javier Hernandez Kistte, 27, poses for a portrait outside his home in Los Angeles, California. Hernandez Kistte is a UC Irvine graduate who now works for a visual effects company. He came to the U.S. from Mexico City when he was eight years old. Hernandez Kistte said that DACA allowed him and his brother to finish their degrees by allowing them to work to pay for tuition. "My parents are still undocumented and as a family we struggle with the anxiety that it's possible for them to get deported at any moment. That anxiety has now risen with the uncertainty that me and my brother might return to having an undocumented status... It's not only about us. I've heard of people who are willing to negotiate terms that will give us the right to be here, give us DACA, but will make life a living nightmare for other people and I don't want that," he said. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Close 9 / 24 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is seen on an electronic screen during a meeting with his confidants ahead of the upcoming presidential election in Moscow. REUTERS/Grigory Dukor Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Russian President Vladimir Putin is seen on an electronic screen during a meeting with his confidants ahead of the upcoming presidential election in Moscow. REUTERS/Grigory Dukor Close 10 / 24 
Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) holds a bible as he takes a symbolic presidential oath of office in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Baz Ratner Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (NASA) holds a bible as he takes a symbolic presidential oath of office in Nairobi, Kenya. REUTERS/Baz Ratner Close 11 / 24 
A Houthi arms depot explodes after it was hit by air strikes in Sanaa, Yemen. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 A Houthi arms depot explodes after it was hit by air strikes in Sanaa, Yemen. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah Close 12 / 24 
Britain's Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, visits a bandy ice rink during her official visit with Prince William in Stockholm, Sweden. REUTERS/Hannah McKay Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Britain's Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, visits a bandy ice rink during her official visit with Prince William in Stockholm, Sweden. REUTERS/Hannah McKay Close 13 / 24 
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady puts on a hat during Super Bowl LII Opening Night. Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Sports Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady puts on a hat during Super Bowl LII Opening Night. Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Sports Close 14 / 24 
India's third Scorpene-class submarine INS Karanj is seen silhouetted as a tugboat pulls it during its launch at the Mazagon Dock Ltd. naval shipbuilding yard, in Mumbai, India. REUTERS/Shailesh Andrade Reuters / Wednesday, January 31, 2018 India's third Scorpene-class submarine INS Karanj is seen silhouetted as a tugboat pulls it during its launch at the Mazagon Dock Ltd. naval shipbuilding yard, in Mumbai, India. REUTERS/Shailesh Andrade Close 15 / 24 
North Korean defector Ji Seong-ho, currently a law student at Dongguk University, holds up his crutches during President Trump's State of the Union address on Capitol Hill. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 North Korean defector Ji Seong-ho, currently a law student at Dongguk University, holds up his crutches during President Trump's State of the Union address on Capitol Hill. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Close 16 / 24 
A view shows the Statue of Liberty replica and flooded banks of the River Seine after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country in Paris. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Reuters / Monday, January 29, 2018 A view shows the Statue of Liberty replica and flooded banks of the River Seine after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country in Paris. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Close 17 / 24 
Turkey-backed Free Syrian Army fighters are seen in Qastal village in east Afrin, Syria. REUTERS/Khalil Ashawi Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Turkey-backed Free Syrian Army fighters are seen in Qastal village in east Afrin, Syria. REUTERS/Khalil Ashawi Close 18 / 24 
A Palestinian boy charges a mobile phone from batteries offered as a free service in his neighborhood which experiences power shortages, in Johr El-Deek in Gaza. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Reuters / Wednesday, January 31, 2018 A Palestinian boy charges a mobile phone from batteries offered as a free service in his neighborhood which experiences power shortages, in Johr El-Deek in Gaza. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Close 19 / 24 
Lifeguard of Spanish NGO Proactiva Open Arms Xavi Cerda gestures from onboard an RHIB to fellow lifeguards during a rescue operation simulation in central Mediterranean Sea. REUTERS/Alkis Konstantinidis Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Lifeguard of Spanish NGO Proactiva Open Arms Xavi Cerda gestures from onboard an RHIB to fellow lifeguards during a rescue operation simulation in central Mediterranean Sea. REUTERS/Alkis Konstantinidis Close 20 / 24 
Photographers take photos of Sid the Pug at a media preview event for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in Manhattan. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Photographers take photos of Sid the Pug at a media preview event for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in Manhattan. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly Close 21 / 24 
Earthquake victims embrace as they take part in a farewell ceremony to their homes in a building in Pacifico 455, damaged during the September 2017 earthquake in Mexico City. REUTERS/Carlos Jasso Reuters / Tuesday, January 30, 2018 Earthquake victims embrace as they take part in a farewell ceremony to their homes in a building in Pacifico 455, damaged during the September 2017 earthquake in Mexico City. REUTERS/Carlos Jasso Close 22 / 24 
Mohammad Jan, 67, sits beside a cage of partridges in a shop at Ka Faroshi bird market   Wednesday, January 31, 2018 Mohammad Jan, 67, sits beside a cage of partridges in a shop at Ka Faroshi bird market   23 / 24 
A full moon is seen behind the business tower Lakhta Centre, which is under construction in St. Petersburg, Russia. REUTERS/Anton Vaganov Reuters / Wednesday, January 31, 2018 A full moon is seen behind the business tower Lakhta Centre, which is under construction in St. Petersburg, Russia. REUTERS/Anton Vaganov Close