NEW YORK, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE -- HempAmericana, Inc. (OTC:HMPQ) (“HempAmericana” or the “Company”) CEO issues the following letter to Shareholders
Dear Valued Shareholder,
The purpose of this communication is to assure investors of the sacred integrity of our relationship with our publicly traded shares, and to offer up a summary message concerning exciting developments currently in progress at HempAmericana.
First, the Company has been flagged by the OTC Markets Group (the "OTC") for unusual trading activity, potentially among other factors, and labeled with the Caveat Emptor classification. We understand that this is a safety measure taken by the OTC designed as a reaction to specific markers including but not limited to remarkable stock price behavior, and its intentions are to protect the investing public. We fully support all practices that safeguard the interests of investors and protect the integrity of our public markets.
While we are excited by the recent increase in liquidity and interest by an apparent range of new investors in shares of HMPQ stock, potentially including larger financial institutions, we are aware of no explanation for the dramatic rise in interest and liquidity beyond that of simply an increasing recognition of the Company’s efforts to drive future value for shareholders. We have been actively pursuing a range of grass-roots marketing pathways, including magazines and similar outlets, to drive further value to shareholders as part of a robust effort to drive growth for the Company.
We will be in close communication with the OTC Markets Group going forward, and stand ready to provide any aid necessary in assisting them with any questions that may arise due to our increase in liquidly.
Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to our longer-term shareholders, and to highlight a number of truly exciting developments now currently shaping the future prospects of HempAmericana as a business enterprise with the potential to achieve some extraordinary objectives ahead.
As many of you know, we conducted our due diligence last year and arrived at the view that a focus on CBD oil extraction and production represented the most impactful assignment of resources going forward. Since that time, the Company has been entirely committed to the navigation of a profound operational and strategic pivot, deploying capital resources toward the establishment of a truly top-tier CBD Oil extraction and production facility rooted in Augusta, Maine.
The path toward that goal has thus far involved numerous and tedious negotiations, site prospecting, equipment deals, supply deals, distribution deals, and many unanticipated hurdles and obstacles. However, through it all, the team has never wavered. As a core group, we remain focused on our vision. And that commitment, we believe, is finally approaching the pay-off stage.
Several days ago, we issued a press release announcing final construction activities at the facility, with major equipment deliveries on schedule and expected in coming days. This includes the delivery of our new 200-liter supercritical CO2 CBD extraction machine – the highest-capacity state-of-the-art CBD extraction machine produced by the manufacturer. Full-capacity production is scheduled to start shortly thereafter.
As it happens, our timing apparently could not be better. Growth in the CBD oil space is now widely projected to outpace that of the broader cannabis-related market segment, which is itself widely projected to outpace nearly every other sector on the planet over the next six quarters.
Hence, while we certainly can’t speak for any given market participant, we truly believe that something special is coming together right now at HempAmericana, and the excitement, engagement, and enthusiasm woven into the fabric of that process is increasingly palpable as we navigate the final steps before production, distribution, and sales begin in earnest.
We will continue to remain passionately committed to realizing our vision of becoming the leading high-capacity CBD oil producer in business today. Further updates will be forthcoming shortly.
Warmest Regards,
Salvador Rosillo
About HempAmericana, Inc.
HempAmericana is currently in the rolling paper and CBD oil business using the brand name Weed Got Oil. Search Rolling Thunders hemp papers on YouTube for a product demonstration of the Company's papers. The company owns an extraction machine and now plans to become a leader in the CBD oil market by establishing three laboratories for the extraction and research of the oils contained in the hemp plant. HempAmericana also researches, develops and sells products made of industrial hemp. See more at http://www.HempAmericana.net .
Safe Harbor Provision Cautionary statement for purposes of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Information in this news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the execution and performance of contracts by the Company and its customers, suppliers and partners. Please also review Hemp Americana annual and quarterly financials for a more complete discussion of risk factors. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification of these securities under the laws of any such state.
Contact:
HempAmericana.net
Salvador Rosillo
HempAmericana, Inc.
Phone: (888) 977-7985
Source:HempAmericana, Inc.