OCEANSIDE, Calif., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, LLC (KBS), the largest provider of technology-enabled, integrated interior and exterior property services to multi-site and multi-region customers in North America, today announced it completed the acquisition of Empire Services (Empire), an independently-owned commercial facility maintenance company headquartered in New Orleans. The transaction closed on December 29, 2017.
Mark Minasian, Chief Executive Officer and Co-founder of KBS stated, "The acquisition of Empire Services marks another important milestone in the evolution and expansion of the KBS North American platform. Empire delivers bundled or single service solutions to an impressive portfolio of clients in very attractive industry end markets. Over the past two decades, Charlie and his team have steadfastly built a great regional business that today delivers mission critical support services to many of the most recognizable names throughout the Gulf Coast region, including the Superdome, the French Quarter, the New Orleans Convention Center, universities, hospital systems, and major commercial clients. We look forward to equipping the team with advanced systems, technology, and shared back office services so that they can continue to grow and lead in the region."
Empire Founder and President Charlie Lusco said, "I am very excited to be teaming with Mark and the KBS team. As we set out to chart our long-term strategic plan, it became clear that teaming with KBS would provide our people and our customers the absolute best path forward. This partnership allows us to continue to deliver our brand of Empire service to our customers with our same leadership team, while adding tremendous resources that now make it possible for us to compete for and win projects that may have been out of reach for us in the past."
Empire provides commercial janitorial, pressure washing, porter services, truck-mounted regenerative air sweeper truck operations, general contracting, painting, sheetrock, demolition services, electrical services, construction clean-up, special event services, emergency services, water extraction and dehumidification, landscape maintenance, trash removal, engineering services, HVAC, mechanical, and facility maintenance services.
Hoon Cho, Managing Director at GI Partners said, "The Empire acquisition provides yet another example of a best-in-class regional operator merging with KBS in order to leverage KBS's operating platform and access KBS's substantial selling and managerial resources. We congratulate Mark and Charlie on this new and exciting partnership."
About Empire Services
Empire Services is a commercial facility maintenance company headquartered in New Orleans, Louisiana, with branch offices in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Monroe, Louisiana, Austin, Texas, and Metairie, Louisiana. Empire Services has grown over the last 20+ years to become one of the leading facility services organizations in the Southeast. Through more than 1,100 carefully-selected and trained staff, Empire Services delivers a full range of quality facility services in packages specially designed and customized for each of our more than 500 customers. As a company with a local presence, Empire Services believes that we have a corporate responsibility to support the communities in which our customers do business. For more information, visit empirenola.com .
About KBS
Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, LLC (KBS) is the largest provider of technology-enabled, integrated interior and exterior property services to retailers, grocers, and multi-site customers in North America. With more than 41,000 active customer locations in all 50 U.S. states, Canada, and Puerto Rico, KBS sets the industry standard for delivering consistently high quality, compliant and cost-effective service solutions. Based in Oceanside, Calif., the company is majority owned by GI Partners. For more information, visit kbs-services.com .
About GI Partners
GI Partners is a leading private investment firm based in San Francisco. The firm has raised over $16 billion in capital through private equity and real estate strategies from recognized institutional investors across the globe. GI Partners' private equity team is active in several sectors, including IT Infrastructure, Healthcare, Software, and Services. For more information on GI Partners and its entire portfolio, please visit gipartners.com .
Contacts:
Andi Murray, 760-477-9207 (o), 202-329-7798 (c) or amurray@kbs-services.com
Nathaniel Shaw, 828-244-7042 or nshaw@kbs-services.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kellermeyer-bergensons-services-completes-acquisition-of-empire-services-300576692.html
SOURCE Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, LLC