PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Columbia Sportswear, a leading innovator in active outdoor apparel, footwear, accessories and equipment, today announced the hiring of Ethan Pochman as the new Vice President of Marketing for the Columbia brand, reporting to Executive Vice President & Columbia Brand President Joe Boyle.
Pochman joins the brand from Performance Health, a private health and wellness consumer products company, where he served in several leadership roles since 2008, including Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and Vice President of Global Marketing. In his new role at Columbia, Pochman will be responsible for developing and executing global consumer marketing programs for the Columbia brand.
“Columbia is focused on putting the consumer first, addressing their needs with best-in-class products and ensuring an excellent experience across all brand touchpoints,” said Joe Boyle, Executive Vice President & Columbia Brand President. “Ethan’s hands-on experience leading marketing in the health and fitness sector is a great fit for the Columbia brand and will help position us for continued growth.”
“At its core, Columbia’s mission is to build products that help people stay comfortable, so they can enjoy the outdoors longer, regardless of their activity,” said Pochman. “I believe Columbia is uniquely capable of delivering on that mission, and I look forward to utilizing my experience to better understand our consumers, help tell our story and build the brand around the world.”
About Columbia
Columbia, the flagship brand of Portland, Oregon-based Columbia Sportswear Company, has been creating innovative apparel, footwear, accessories and equipment for outdoor enthusiasts since 1938. Columbia has become a leading global brand by channeling the company’s passion for the outdoors and innovative spirit into technologies and performance products that keep people warm, dry, cool and protected year-round. To learn more, please visit the company’s website at columbia.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding anticipated results, profitability and growth. Forward-looking statements often use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “should,” and “may,” and other words and terms of similar meaning or reference future dates. The company’s expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and are believed to have a reasonable basis; however, each forward-looking statement involves a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in this document, those described in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors,” and those that have been or may be described in other reports filed by the company, including reports on Form 8-K.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005303/en/
Columbia Sportswear Public Relations
Andy Nordhoff, 503-985-1739
anordhoff@columbia.com
Source: Columbia Sportswear Company