HIGHLANDS RANCH, Colo., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Arcadis (EURONEXT:ARCAD) announces the appointment of Justin Wright as chief information officer for its North and Latin America regions. Wright joined Arcadis in 2007 and brings 20 years of professional experience in the design, consulting, real estate, and aviation industries.
With two decades as a successful leader, Wright brings a wealth of expertise delivering innovative, technology-based solutions for companies and clients across multiple geographies and industry sectors.
In his new role, Wright joins Arcadis’ global information technology (IT) leadership team to oversee regional IT operations while defining and implementing a progressive digital strategy for the firm and its clients.
“Arcadis has prioritized technology investment as a key part of its 'Creating a Sustainable Future' strategy,” said Joachim Ebert, CEO, Arcadis North America . “We recognize the opportunities technology creates to foster innovation and enhance our ability to service our clients, while making Arcadis the best place to work. Justin’s experience and knowledge make him perfectly suited to grow and enhance our use of technology.”
“Much of what were considered ideas just 10 years ago is now reality. Digital disruption is all around, and businesses must digitize and modernize to stay ahead. Drones are monitoring assets; building information modeling is used to design infrastructure; and sensors are being used to monitor sea levels, environmental conditions, construction sites, and more in real-time,” said Wright. “These are exciting times, and I look forward to growing our portfolio of technological solutions for our clients.”
Wright holds a Master of Business Administration and a Bachelor of Science in management from Arizona State University. He is based out of Arcadis’ Phoenix, Arizona, office.
Media contacts : Cameron McWilliam, 720-344-3704, cameron.mcwilliam@arcadis.com
About Arcadis
Arcadis is the leading global design and consultancy firm for natural and built assets. Applying our deep market sector insights and collective design, consultancy, engineering, project and management services, we work in partnership with our clients to deliver exceptional and sustainable outcomes throughout the lifecycle of their natural and built assets. We are 27,000 people active in over 70 countries that generate more than $3.5 billion in revenues. Visit Arcadis.com
Source:Arcadis US Inc