NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Board of Directors of Griffon Corporation (NYSE:GFF) (the “Company” or “Griffon”) declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. The dividend is payable on March 22, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018.
About Griffon Corporation
Griffon is a diversified management and holding company that conducts business through wholly-owned subsidiaries. Griffon oversees the operations of its subsidiaries, allocates resources among them and manages their capital structures. Griffon provides direction and assistance to its subsidiaries in connection with acquisition and growth opportunities as well as in connection with divestitures. In order to further diversify, Griffon also seeks out, evaluates and, when appropriate, will acquire additional businesses that offer potentially attractive returns on capital.
Headquartered in New York, N.Y., the Company was founded in 1959 and is incorporated in Delaware. Griffon is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol GFF.
Griffon currently conducts its operations through two reportable segments:
Home & Building Products consists of three companies, The AMES Companies, Inc. (“AMES”), Clopay Building Products Company, Inc. (“CBP”) and ClosetMaid LLC (“ClosetMaid”): AMES, founded in 1774, is the leading U.S. manufacturer and a global provider of long-handled tools and landscaping products for homeowners and professionals. CBP, since 1964, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of residential and commercial garage doors and sells to professional dealers and some of the largest home center retail chains in North America. ClosetMaid, founded in 1965, is a leading North American manufacturer and marketer of closet organization, home storage, and garage storage products, and sells to some of the largest home center retail chains, mass merchandisers, and direct-to-builder professional installers. Telephonics, founded in 1933, is recognized globally as a leading provider of highly sophisticated intelligence, surveillance and communications solutions for defense, aerospace and commercial customers.
Classified as a discontinued operation, Clopay Plastic Products Company, Inc., incorporated in 1934, is a global leader in the development and production of embossed, laminated and printed specialty plastic films for hygienic, health-care and industrial products and sells to some of the world's largest consumer products companies.
For more information on Griffon and its operating subsidiaries, please see the Company’s website at www.griffon.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005390/en/
Griffon Corporation:
Brian G. Harris, 212-957-5000
SVP & Chief Financial Officer
or
Investor Relations:
ICR Inc.
Michael Callahan, 203-682-8311
Senior Vice President
Source: Griffon Corporation