NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cowen Inc. (NASDAQ:COWN) (“Cowen” or the “Company”) today announced that Michael Page recently joined the firm and was named Chief Operating Officer of its international business units; Cowen Execution Services Limited and Cowen International Limited. In his new position, Mr. Page will work directly with Cowen’s management team and help facilitate the growth of the firm’s international businesses. Mr. Page has almost 30 years of financial services experience and reports to John Holmes, Cowen Chief Operating Officer.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005293/en/
Michael Page Named Chief Operating Officer of Cowen's International Business Units (Photo: Business Wire)
“Cowen is continuing to expand its international offerings and operations as the firm remains very strategic in its goal to offer diverse and innovative solutions to our clients,” said John Holmes, Cowen Chief Operating Officer. “Mike is a great addition to Cowen’s European-based team as his background and experience will further strengthen our ability to provide operational excellence across Cowen’s international channels.”
Prior to joining Cowen, Mr. Page was a Managing Director in the Equities Division at Jefferies International Ltd. where he was COO of their International Securities Finance business. Mr. Page’s previous experience includes working at Paloma Partners where he was the Director of Paloma’s London entity responsible for overseeing operations and business management; acting as the Head of Operations for DLJ International’s London-based securities finance business; as well as holding various securities finance operational roles while working at London Global Securities. Mr. Page began his career working at Salomon Brothers International Ltd., working in both its foreign exchange and securities finance departments.
About Cowen Inc.
Cowen Inc. is a diversified financial services firm and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, provides alternative asset management, investment banking, research, sales and trading, prime brokerage, global clearing and commission management through its two business segments: Cowen Investment Management and its affiliates make up the Company’s alternative investment segment, while Cowen and Company, a member of FINRA and SIPC, and its affiliates make up the Company’s broker-dealer segment. Cowen Investment Management provides alternative asset management solutions to a global client base and manages a significant portion of Cowen’s proprietary capital. Cowen and Company and its affiliates offer industry focused investment banking for growth-oriented companies, domain knowledge-driven research, a sales and trading platform for institutional investors and a comprehensive suite of prime brokerage services. Founded in 1918, the firm is headquartered in New York and has offices worldwide. For additional information, visit www.cowen.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005293/en/
Media:
Cowen
Lynda Caravello, 646-562-1676
lynda.caravello@cowen.com
or
Gagnier Communications
Dan Gagnier, 646-569-5897
dg@gagnierfc.com
Source: Cowen Inc.