CYPRESS, Calif., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Dimension Development is pleased to announce TONIMARIE CRUZ, Area Director of Sales of the COURTYARD BY MARRIOTT CYPRESS AND THE HAMPTON INN BY HILTON CYPRESS.
Tonimarie has a long and distinguished career in hospitality. Most recently, she served as Director of Sales at the Bicycle Hotel Casino in Bell Gardens. Throughout Tonimarie's career, she managed travel for Yamaha Motors, was Director of Sales with the Courtyard Cypress - where she was recognized as Courtyard by Marriott's Sales Leader of the Year by Mr. William Marriott, as well as Director of Sales of the Year; served as Director of Sales with Doubletree Hotels, Radisson Hotels, Holiday Inns, and began her career in hospitality at the Queen Mary in Long Beach, CA.
"I am extremely excited to be back in Cypress and to have the opportunity to be part of two great properties with an amazing team. My knowledge and experience of the local market, along with my ability to build relationships and my passion for great customer service, make this a great fit. I look forward to continued success with Dimension Development," said Tonimarie Cruz.
The Courtyard Cypress Anaheim/Orange County is a full-service hotel with 180 guestrooms and over 4,000 sq. ft. of event space. Guestrooms feature modern decor and an array of convenient amenities including complimentary wireless Internet access, plush bedding, mini refrigerators, microwaves, and flat-panel TVs. The Bistro offers a variety of dining options and drinks. Located at 5865 Katella Avenue, Cypress California 90630, the Courtyard can be reached at (714) 827-1010 or by visiting www.marriott.com/LGBCP for more information.
The Hampton Inn Los Angeles-Orange County-Cypress offers 110 guestrooms, function space to accommodate up to 50 people, and a 24-hour business center. A complimentary hot/cold buffet breakfast is served daily. The hotel is newly remodeled and guestrooms feature refrigerators, coffee/tea makers, complimentary wireless Internet access, and World Cinema. Recreational opportunities include an outdoor pool and fitness center. Located at 10900 Yamaha Way, Cypress, CA 906300, the Hampton Inn can be reached at (714) 527-2900 or by visiting www.losangelescypress.hamptoninn.com for more information.
Dimension Development Co . was founded in 1988, and has successfully developed, acquired and managed full-service, all-suite, and limited feature hotels. The company's various hotel partnerships have produced winning combinations in markets throughout the country. Dimension is a growth-oriented hospitality management company. Its current portfolio consists of more than 60 hotels in 12 states and encompasses representation of the following leading brands: Marriott International, Inc., Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt Global and Resorts and InterContinental Hotel Group.
For more information about Dimension Development Co., please visit www.dimdev.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dimension-development-names-tonimarie-cruz-as-area-director-of-sales-of-the-courtyard-by-marriott-cypress-and-hampton-inn-by-hilton-cypress-ca-300578243.html
SOURCE Dimension Development