PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today, Delaware Enhanced Global Dividend and Income Fund (the “Fund”), a New York Stock Exchange–listed closed-end fund trading under the symbol “DEX,” declares a monthly dividend of $0.0525 per share. The dividend is payable Jan. 26, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Jan. 12, 2018. The ex-dividend date will be Jan. 11, 2018.
The Fund's primary investment objective is to seek current income, with a secondary objective of capital appreciation. The Fund invests globally in dividend-paying or income-generating securities across multiple asset classes, including but not limited to: equity securities of large, well-established companies; securities issued by real estate companies (including real estate investment trusts and real estate industry operating companies); debt securities (such as government bonds; investment grade and high risk, high yield corporate bonds; and convertible bonds); and emerging market securities. The Fund also uses enhanced income strategies by engaging in dividend capture trading; option overwriting; and realization of gains on the sale of securities, dividend growth, and currency forwards. There is no assurance that the Fund will achieve its investment objectives.
Under normal market conditions, the Fund will invest: (1) at most 60% of its net assets in securities of U.S. issuers; and (2) at least 40% of its net assets in securities of non-U.S. issuers, unless market conditions are not deemed favorable by the Manager, in which case, the Fund would invest at least 30% of its net assets in securities of non-U.S. issuers; and (3) the Fund may invest up to 25% of its net assets in securities issued by real estate companies (including real estate investment trusts and real estate industry operating companies). In addition, the Fund utilizes leveraging techniques in an attempt to obtain higher return for the Fund.
The Fund has implemented a managed distribution policy. Under the policy, the Fund is managed with a goal of generating as much of the distribution as possible from net investment income and short-term capital gains. The balance of the distribution will then come from long-term capital gains to the extent permitted, and if necessary, a return of capital. Even though the Fund may realize current year capital gains, such gains may be offset, in whole or in part, by the Fund’s capital loss carryovers from prior years. For federal income tax purposes, the effect of such capital loss carryovers is to convert (to the extent of such current year gains) what would otherwise be nontaxable returns of capital into distributions taxable as ordinary income. The use of such capital loss carryovers in this circumstance will produce no tax benefit for shareholders, and the capital loss carryovers available to offset future capital gains of the Fund will be reduced. Under the Regulated Investment Company Modernization Act of 2010, this tax effect attributable to the Fund’s capital loss carryovers (the conversion of nontaxable returns of capital into distributions taxable as ordinary income) will no longer apply to net capital losses of the Fund arising in Fund tax years beginning after Nov. 30, 2011. The actual determination of the source of the Fund's distributions can be made only at year end. Shareholders should receive written notification regarding the actual components and tax treatments of all Fund distributions for the calendar year 2017 in early 2018.
About Macquarie Investment Management
Macquarie Investment Management, a member of Macquarie Group, includes the former Delaware Investments and is a global asset manager with offices throughout the United States, Europe, Asia, and Australia. As active managers, we prioritize autonomy and accountability at the team level in pursuit of opportunities that matter for clients. Macquarie Investment Management is supported by the resources of Macquarie Group (ASX: MQG; ADR: MQBKY), a global provider of asset management, investment, banking, financial and advisory services.
Advisory services are provided by Macquarie Investment Management Business Trust, a registered investment advisor. Macquarie Group refers to Macquarie Group Limited and its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. For more information about Delaware Funds SM by Macquarie, visit delawarefunds.com or call 800 523-1918.
Other than Macquarie Bank Limited (MBL), none of the entities referred to in this document are authorized deposit-taking institutions for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959 (Commonwealth of Australia). The obligations of these entities do not represent deposits or other liabilities of MBL, a subsidiary of Macquarie Group Limited and an affiliate of Macquarie Investment Management. MBL does not guarantee or otherwise provide assurance in respect of the obligations of these entities, unless noted otherwise.
© 2018 Macquarie Management Holdings, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005893/en/
Investors
Computershare
866-437-0252
delawarefunds.com/closed-end
or
Media contacts
Macquarie Investment Management
Daniela Palmieri, 215-255-8878
or
Jessica Fitzgerald, 215-255-1336
Source: Delaware Enhanced Global Dividend and Income Fund