WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The McCain Institute for International Leadership today announced its 2018 Kissinger Fellow, Kurt Campbell . His one-year fellowship begins tonight at an annual dinner in New York City with Dr. Henry Kissinger, the McCain Institute’s cohort of next generation leaders , and other notables.
Kurt M. Campbell, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2009 to 2013, is chairman and chief executive officer of The Asia Group, a strategic advisory and capital management group. He also is chairman of the DC-based think tank, Center for a New American Security.
Singularly focused on China in this fellowship, Campbell plans to lead a bi-partisan project aimed at establishing a new, comprehensive framework to strike the best balance of competition and cooperation.
"The U.S.-China relationship is perhaps the most critical relationship for the world as we look to the future. Kurt Campbell has the knowledge and experience to lead a serious strategic review and I look forward to the results," said Ambassador Kurt Volker, executive director of the McCain Institute.
“I salute the Institute for picking Kurt Campbell, a leader of character and impact clearly cut from the Kissinger mold,” said Senator John McCain.
The Kissinger Fellowship provides a unique opportunity for senior leaders to hone their skills, in taking on a challenge of international significance, and taking advantage of the conferred convening authority, according to Sir Evelyn de Rothschild, the McCain Institute’s chairman of this fellowship program.
George Osborne, the UK parliamentarian and former Chancellor of the Exchequer, was the inaugural, 2017 Kissinger Fellow.
About The McCain Institute
Guided by values that have animated the career of Senator John McCain and the McCain family for generations, the McCain Institute for International Leadership at Arizona State University is a non-partisan do-tank dedicated to advancing character-driven global leadership based on security, economic opportunity, freedom and human dignity.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005768/en/
for The McCain Institute for International Leadership
Luke Knittig
Senior Director of Communications
202-601-4288
Luke.Knittig@asu.edu
Source: The McCain Institute for International Leadership