PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) has promoted Brent Stephens to second vice president and associate actuary for the Employee Benefits actuarial group.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005030/en/
Brent Stephens, second vice president and associate actuary for the The Standard's Employee Benefits actuarial group. (Photo: Business Wire)
Stephens joined The Standard in 1999 and has held multiple roles within Employee Benefits Actuarial. In his current role, Stephens leads the Employee Benefits financial reporting and analysis team as well as the Experience Rating and Refund team, ensuring timely, accurate and quality financial reporting.
“Brent has successfully led the EB Financial Reporting and ERR team with key contributions to analysis of profitability and reporting to ERR customers,” said Foon Lew, vice president and Group Actuary at The Standard.
Stephens earned a Bachelor of Science degree in applied mathematics from the University of Idaho. He is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and holds a Chartered Enterprise Risk Analyst credential with the Society of Actuaries.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, Inc., StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005030/en/
The Standard
Bob Speltz, Director, Public Affairs
971-321-3162
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard