SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 12, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Adacus, a Thunder Industries company, has announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of Canned Banners for an undisclosed sum. Adacus will take over servicing Canned Banners' customers, which include data-driven leaders such as Marin Software, ExactDrive, and Intice.
"We're pleased to bring Canned Banners under our wing and are excited to usher Canned Banners' customers to the next generation of creative optimization," said Ken Archer, CEO at Adacus.
"This is a clear case of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts. Canned Banners perfected one of ad tech's most extensible and reliable platforms for personalizing display ad creative. It makes perfect sense to augment the performance benefits of personalized creative with Adacus' programmatic approach to creative testing and optimization," said Myles Younger, CEO of Canned Banners.
Adacus' platform will give customers access to flexible conversion tracking, automated A/B testing and detailed reporting dashboards.
Adacus, an advanced AI and machine learning company with a predictive creative targeting and analytics platform, was acquired by Thunder Industries earlier this year.
Canned Banners, founded in 2008 in San Francisco, originally launched with a self-serve display ad builder and debuted its Dynamic Ads platform in 2012.
About Adacus
For advertisers and their agencies, Adacus is the leading creative targeting and analytics platform built upon machine learning and AI. The Adacus platform reveals and automates opportunities to drive campaign performance through creative decisioning and optimization.
Adacus surfaces deep creative analytics that include breakdowns of performance relative to first and third party data, best-in-class demographic data, and interest signals built on machine learning. It's AI-powered analytics reveal hidden insights, providing marketers with the strongest optimization opportunities to improve their campaign ROI.
Adacus is headquartered in San Francisco, CA. You can learn more at www.adacus.com .
Contact:
Cassady Nordeen
Cassady@blastpr.com
Source: Thunder