Dublin, Ireland, Jan. 26, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- John is currently the CEO of Allergy Standards Ltd , an international standards and certification body, a company he founded while working as an Emergency Room Doctor. He has also led the development of an international intellectual property portfolio of patents and trade mark applications and negotiated complex licensing agreements with multinationals such as P&G and 3M. In addition to his entrepreneurial and business activities, John also maintains an interest in university research and knowledge exchange practices. He is the Entrepreneur in Residence in the Faculty of Health Sciences as well as a member of the Knowledge Transfer & Innovation Committee, in Trinity College Dublin.
Dr. John McKeon CEO of Allergy Standards
As an expert in healthcare entrepreneurship he is involved in early stage companies in
life sciences, biotechnology & medical device sectors. He works with health care entrepreneurs and business owners to clarify their business models for scalable growth, rapid expansion or to take in investment.
"We are delighted to be welcoming John to the Board of IRDG. John has an immense background in healthcare innovation in Ireland and overseas and it’s great to be bringing his expertise and perspective to the table" said Denis Hayes, Managing Director of IRDG.
The IRDG is a non-profit, business-led Innovation Network of member companies and colleges, working together to drive excellence in Innovation within Ireland’s industry to create growth, jobs and prosperity. IRDG is unique as the only organisation in Ireland which is totally focused on business Research, Development and Innovation. The organisation has grown from 70 to over 250 member organisations in the past 5 years. IRDG member companies include both FDI and indigenous firms, from across all sectors of industry, and this unique combination provides a very interesting and powerful network.
Commenting on his appointment, Dr McKeon said: “After being a member of the IRDG and attending their excellent events for a number of years, I am delighted to get more involved within the organisation. Being appointed as a member of the Board of Directors is an honour and I look forward to drawing on my strong experience to help the organisation achieve its mission.”
Read more about Dr John McKeon
Read more about the IRDG
About Allergy Standards Limited
Allergy Standards Limited (ASL) is an international certification company that prepares independent standards for testing a wide range of products to determine their suitability for asthmatics and individuals with associated allergies. ASL has devised a series of proprietary testing protocols and suitability specifications for products to meet in order to be eligible for certification as asthma & allergy friendly® . ASL has developed these protocols to identify that products that consumers can trust have been subject to rigorous testing to determine their relative suitability for people with asthma and allergies. The program works with patient advocacy groups, retailers and manufacturers across product categories that are relevant to a ‘healthy home’ concept including textiles and apparel, air cleaners, dehumidifiers, paints, bedding, vacuum cleaners, washing machines, stuffed toys, cleaning services, and more. http://www.allergystandards.com/
About IRDG
The IRDG is an industry-led representative group for manufacturing and services companies involved in Research, Development and Innovation (RD&I). Established by industry in 1992, the Group is an independent, non-profit body, serving the needs of members on all matters relating to RD&I. Services to members fall under 5 pillars – Representation, Funding & Support, Innovation Networking, Collaboration & Learning.
IRDG membership is relatively evenly divided between Irish-owned and multinational companies, who range in size from start-ups to the largest companies in Ireland. The Group is funded by members’ annual subscriptions, and operates independently from any State bodies. The IRDG is an dynamic and growing network, and welcomes new members on an ongoing basis. www.irdg.ie
Attachments:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c41f5d37-2bf4-424f-85d5-17295acb20c2
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/2f00a016-dfb1-4e89-9029-12b3e7242930
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/fc731c87-1240-4dc9-bfa5-679853700052
David Morrissey Allergy Standards Limited 353 1 6755678 press@allergystandards.com
Source:Allergy Standards Limited