Brian Schaaf to become CFO of Ford Credit Schaaf will lead Ford Credit financial planning, analysis, accounting and capital strategy Ford Credit CFO Marion Harris to become vice president of Ford Mobility Business Group
DEARBORN, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ford Motor Credit Company today named Brian Schaaf as chief financial officer and treasurer. Currently, Schaaf is controller of Ford Motor Company Global Purchasing.
Schaaf, 55, will be responsible for Ford Credit financial planning, analysis, accounting and capital strategy. Marion Harris, who has been CFO and treasurer since 2015, has been named vice president, Ford Mobility Business Group.
“I am pleased to have Brian join Ford Credit as we continue our profitable growth, supporting Ford’s automotive and mobility businesses,” said Joy Falotico, Ford Credit chairman and CEO. “Brian has broad finance, treasury, auditing, international and leadership experience. He will bring a wealth of valuable experience, skills and insights to our team.”
Prior to becoming Global Purchasing controller, Schaaf was Ford assistant treasurer for seven years. He also served as Ford general auditor and corporate business development director. In addition, he held key positions, such as finance director, controller, and various financial analysis and business strategy roles, in Ford automotive operations, including in the UK. Schaaf joined Ford in 1989, after working as a mechanical engineer.
Schaaf has a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Marquette University in Wisconsin and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Michigan.
# # #
About Ford Motor Credit Company
Ford Motor Credit Company is a leading global automotive financial services provider. It has provided dealer and customer financing to support the sale of Ford Motor Company products since 1959. Ford Credit is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ford, and it provides client financing through its Lincoln Automotive Financial Services brand in the United States, Canada and China. For more information, visit www.fordcredit.com or www.lincolnafs.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005934/en/
Ford Motor Credit Company
Margaret Mellott
313.322.5393
mmellott@ford.com
Source: Ford Motor Credit Company