0 COMMENTS Immigration looks set to stay atop the U.S. political agenda this year. That means India’s IT outsourcing companies could find themselves in Washington’s crosshairs again.
Shares in these outsourcers, which provide information technology services to firms from banks to car makers, have done well recently with investors hoping resilient global growth will push companies to spend more on upgrading systems and software. Tata Consultancy Services EQTCS -0.14% hit an all-time high Monday, while Infosys INFY 0.77% has gained more than 10% over the past month.
Management at both firms said they expect business to pick up this year when they announced in-line results last week. A survey of 100 chief information officers in the U.S. and Europe carried out by Morgan Stanley this month found IT budgets are expected to grow nearly 5% this year.
Infosys employees at the company headquarters in Bangalore, India. Photo: Aijaz Rahi/Associated Press The optimism around outsourcers, though, doesn’t allow for the problematic political backdrop. Following President Donald Trump’s “Buy American, Hire American” executive order last year, a revamp of H-1B visas—used by many Indian outsourcing firms to bring their employees into the U.S.—is under way. One possibility is that minimum salary requirements for H-1B visa applicants will be raised, while issuance quotas could be lowered too. The upshot is that the likes of Tata and Infosys may have to pay their workers more , narrowing profit margins.
Another headwind facing outsourcers is the increasing popularity of cloud-based software, a much cheaper way for companies to maintain essential systems than keeping their own in-house products, which tend to require more servicing. Outsourcing firms have started providing their own cloud-based services , but they face competition here from the likes of Salesforce.com and Germany’s SAP. They could also take a hit if the U.S. economy doesn’t grow as strongly as expected: IT outsourcing is the most susceptible area of corporate spending to cuts if there’s an economic downturn, according to the Morgan Stanley survey.
So far, investors seem happy to look past the clouds ahead for outsourcers. They should remember to pay close attention to the political climate.