HOUSTON, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BBVA Compass today announced that Blake Kirshman has been named the Head of its Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) Energy Division following the planned retirement of Dorothy Marchand, a transition that was made effective in early January 2018.
In his role, Kirshman will be responsible for leading a team of experienced energy bankers in developing, managing and maintaining relationships with clients across the energy spectrum, including ensuring bank interests are kept at the forefront.
"Blake is primed for this role with eight years of solid experience as a leading energy banker under his belt," said Marchand. "He has studied all facets of the oil and gas industry, and has solid, foundational experience that gives him exceptional understanding of its current pressures and future outlook. The energy business is very important to BBVA and we're excited to have him moving this segment to its next phase of growth. We know that our clients – and his team - will appreciate what he brings to the table."
Kirshman started in the Energy Division of BBVA Compass in 2009 as an Associate Relationship Manager and Portfolio Underwriter, where he underwrote loans and performed industry analysis. He moved to Relationship Manager in 2011 where he managed a portfolio of clients that included upstream and midstream energy companies. Kirshman began his career as a Senior Associate at KPMG, a big four public accounting firm.
Kirshman is a Certified Public Accountant in the State of Texas and a member of the Independent Petroleum Association of America, the Houston Producers' Forum and Dallas ADAM Energy Forum. He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting and a Master of Science in Accounting from Texas Tech University.
To learn more about BBVA Compass, visit: www.bbvacompass.com
For more news visit: www.bbva.com and newsroom.bbvacompass.com
About BBVA Group
BBVA (NYSE: BBVA) is a customer-centric global financial services group founded in 1857. The Group has a strong leadership position in the Spanish market, is the largest financial institution in Mexico, and has leading franchises in South America and the Sunbelt Region of the United States; it is also the leading shareholder in Garanti, Turkey's biggest bank for market capitalization. Its diversified business is focused on high-growth markets and it relies on technology as a key sustainable competitive advantage. Corporate responsibility is at the core of its business model. BBVA fosters financial education and inclusion, and supports scientific research and culture. It operates with the highest integrity, a long-term vision and applies the best practices. More information about BBVA Group can be found at bbva.com .
About BBVA Compass
BBVA Compass is a Sunbelt-based financial institution that operates 649 branches, including 336 in Texas, 89 in Alabama, 63 in Arizona, 61 in California, 45 in Florida, 37 in Colorado and 18 in New Mexico. BBVA Compass ranks among the top 25 largest U.S. commercial banks based on deposit market share and ranks among the largest banks in Alabama (2nd), Texas (4th) and Arizona (5th). BBVA Compass has been recognized as one of the leading small business lenders by the Small Business Administration (SBA) and ranked 5th nationally in the total number of SBA loans originated in fiscal year 2016. Additional information about BBVA Compass can be found at www.bbvacompass.com . For more BBVA Compass news, follow @BBVACompassNews on Twitter or visit newsroom.bbvacompass.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blake-kirshman-named-head-of-energy-division-for-bbva-compass-corporate--investment-banking-300579021.html
SOURCE BBVA Compass