BOISE, Idaho, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Today Refer.com , Inc. shakes-up both the SaaS and small business world by announcing its acquisition of Referral Key, Inc. – the world's largest online referral network. Boston based Referral Key is home to nearly 5 million professionals and businesses who come together to connect and help grow each other's businesses by referring prospective clients to one another.
Refer.com CEO, Tom Gay, described the opportunity, "At its core, it's simple… Referrals are the primary source of new business for millions of professionals and SMBs worldwide. Refer.com SaaS products and services already deliver tremendous value to our diverse worldwide customer base. Today we welcome Referral Key members from over 200 countries into our family and we're focused on bringing our tools to this expansive, growing Referral Key audience to help members reach their sales goals."
Lewis A. Weinstein, founder and CEO of Referral Key added, "These are exciting times. Refer's compelling product offerings for small business professionals combined with Referral Key's millions of referral-minded individuals is a natural fit and will drive significant value for our members."
Refer.com President Brandon Barnum continued, "We will continue to ramp up our data-driven innovation and now Referral Key's incredible numbers will supercharge our ability to bring even more value to our clients. We've already analyzed mountains of data, captured nearly 100K survey responses and gathered years' worth of qualitative feedback; we know Referral Key members are clamoring for the services and products Refer has pioneered."
When asked how the Referral Key team viewed the acquisition, product guru Christopher Ott shared, "We all like Refer.com because in the small business world, Refer is to referral relationships as Salesforce is to a CRM. Refer is an evolving SaaS platform based on proven methodology that delivers an edge to its customers. Referral Key members are serious about more effectively cultivating reciprocal referral relationships. With Refer.com we're delivering on our promise to help millions of businesses gain sales breakthroughs!"
Financial terms of the transaction are undisclosed.
About Refer.com, Inc.
Refer is the worldwide leader in referral marketing. The company helps businesses and professionals generate more referred sales leads through its proprietary technology, tools, and training. Information about Refer can be found at https://www.refer.com . For ongoing news, please go to https://refer.com/company .
About Referral Key, Inc.
Referral Key is the world's largest referral networking platform, helping nearly 5 million small business professionals worldwide manage and expand their trusted referral relationships with over 37 million business connections to more effectively to increase sales and differentiate themselves from their competition.
Media Contact: Jennifer Dike
Refer.com, Inc.
Email: jdike(at)refer(dot)com
Phone: (855) 228-6824
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/refercom-acquires-referral-key---uniting-the-worlds-largest-online-referral-network-with-the-worlds-leading-referral-saas-solution-300586904.html
SOURCE Refer.com, Inc.