WASHINGTON, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Madison Marquette is pleased to announce the appointment of Charlotte Strain as Managing Director, Property Services. With over 20 years of management experience servicing assets on behalf of private and institutional investors, Strain will oversee all property services strategy and operations. In addition, she will collaborate with company investment, development and leasing leaders to manage client accounts and business development across Madison's national portfolio of office, mixed-use, urban and retail assets.
"We are delighted that Charlotte is joining Madison Marquette in this role that will allow us to expand our property services capabilities across asset classes," said John Fleury, President of Madison Marquette. "Charlotte brings her two-decade-plus career expertise in managing office, mixed-use, and retail assets to the company. We look forward to her leading and inspiring our property services teams across the country."
Prior to joining Madison, Strain was Senior Vice President, Asset Management for Rappaport, where she directed the management of over 8 million square feet of grocery anchored shopping centers and oversaw the lease administration team, including the firm's litigation liaison for a portfolio of over 1,500 leases. Previous roles include Senior Director, Commercial Asset Management at AvalonBay Communities, where she managed their national retail portfolio and directed all asset management leasing functions and Vice President, Property Management for Cambridge Asset Advisors, L.P. Strain holds the designations of CPM, CRX, CSM, RPA and CCIM. She is a graduate of National Louis University and has served on the Institute of Real Estate Management's (IREM) Washington D.C. Chapter Board of Directors for five consecutive years.
"I am pleased to join a company with such a diverse portfolio of assets across the country," said Charlotte Strain. "In this new role, I look forward to leveraging my operational and business development expertise to grow Madison's client and business partnerships in strategic regions, and to direct the property services platform that has given the company such a strong reputation in the industry."
Strain will be based in Madison Marquette's Washington D.C. headquarters, and will report directly to Madison's President, John Fleury.
About Madison Marquette
Madison Marquette is a leading private real estate investment manager, developer, operator and service provider headquartered in Washington, DC. Founded in 1992, the company's reputation is built on the successful development, repositioning and redevelopment of commercial mixed-use assets in major gateway and emerging high-growth markets throughout the United States. Madison Marquette partners with global institutional and private investors to achieve industry-leading investment performance across asset classes. In addition, the firm provides integrated management and leasing services to many of the most sophisticated institutional owners in the industry. Current high-profile projects include The Wharf in Washington, D.C., the redevelopment of the Asbury Park waterfront in New Jersey, and Pacific Place in Seattle, WA. The firm covers major U.S. markets through its primary offices in Washington, D.C., New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Seattle. Madison Marquette is a member of the Capital Guidance global group of companies. For more information, please visit the company's website at www.madisonmarquette.com
Contact:
Shanna Wilson
shanna@eincomm.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/madison-marquette-names-new-managing-director-property-services-300577898.html
SOURCE Madison Marquette Realty