BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The technology leader at one of the largest flatbed carriers in the United States will play a key role in the development of industry standards for the Blockchain in Transport Alliance (BiTA). Mauricio Paredes, Vice President of Technology at P&S Transportation, was appointed to the inaugural Board of Directors of the Blockchain in Transport Standards Council (BiTAS). Mr. Paredes is one of ten (10) board members.
“Blockchain applications will play a critical role in the evolution of the transportation industry,” said Mr. Paredes. “We recognized the potential of blockchain early on – along with the need for industry-specific standardization.”
BiTA is the logistics industry's first advocacy organization devoted to the development of blockchain standards. The formation of BiTA is a strategic move to advance the transportation industry through smart technologies and standardized operating procedures. P&S Transportation is a charter member of BiTA, and the non-profit organization now consists of more than 130 other active members, including UPS, FedEx, C.H. Robinson, TransFlo, Schneider, SAP and Penske. The newly appointed Standards Council marks another major benchmark for the rapidly expanding association.
“BiTA is exclusively focused on establishing guidelines that will move the adoption of blockchain across all aspects of transportation,” explained Paredes. “These will be open standards, which means they are not defined or driven by a single set of existing technologies or customers.”
The inaugural BiTAS board meeting took place in December 2017, and the official launch of the BiTA Standards Council is targeted for May 2018.
About P&S Transportation
Based in Birmingham, AL, P&S Transportation ( www.pstrans.com ) is a leading national flatbed carriers and part of PS Logistics ( www.pslogistics.com ), a full-service logistics company, providing enterprise solutions for asset transportation, brokerage, 3PL and supply chain services. PS Logistics serves customers with a network of over 2,500 trucks, 530 logistics professionals and 50 terminals. The company’s brand names include P&S Transportation, TA Services, Blair Logistics and Loudon County Trucking.
About Blockchain in Trucking Alliance
Founded in August 2017, the Blockchain in Trucking Alliance (BiTA) is a forum for promotion, education, and encouragement to develop and adopt blockchain applications in the trucking, transportation, and logistics industry. BiTA’s goal is for members to participate, discuss, create, and adopt industry standard uses of blockchain applications and to provide clarity and direction for the development of blockchain technology in the trucking industry in a manner that will create efficiency, transparency, and foster trust. BiTA standards are intended to create a common framework to help organizations develop and adopt blockchain technology. For more information, visit www.bita.studio .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006148/en/
P&S Transportation
Mauricio Paredes, 205-788-4000
Vice President of Technology
mparedes@pstrans.com
Source: P&S Transportation