WINTER HAVEN, Fla., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Crosby & Associates, Inc., has promoted two of the company's senior associates to vice president, reflecting the company's strong growth in 2017 and its focus on team development.
Land Specialist Caleb McDow, ALC, joined Crosby & Associates in 2014 and holds the Accredited Land Consultant designation from REALTORS Land Institute, a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Auburn University and a masters degree in Real Estate from the University of Florida. He currently focuses on agricultural and development land sales, specializing in row crops, pasture and citrus groves in Florida and Georgia.
Trevor Williams also joined Crosby in 2014 as a sales associate specializing in land and holds bachelor's and master's degrees in Communications and Media from Florida State University. Since beginning in the business in 2014, Trevor has earned a reputation for tenacious and pro-active real estate representation. In just three years time, Trevor has built a network of clients in all sectors of the real estate business, handling transactions of all sizes. Trevor's focus is vacant land; agricultural, developmental, and transitional.
"Demand for Florida land has been growing dramatically, and we are committed to growing and maintaining a team that has the in-depth knowledge and expertise to help sellers and buyers alike make sound decisions. Caleb and Trevor have both become trusted advisors who have earned these positions through hard work and performance," said Ben Crosby, president of the company.
Crosby said the strong demand for land in the Southeast US has created a greater need for brokers and advisers with expertise in such areas as agriculture, land use, and commercial and residential development. "We had a great year in 2017 and anticipate more growth ahead," he said.
Williams can be reached at trevor@crosbydirt.com or at 863-289-7222. McDow can be reached at caleb@crosbydirt.com 352-665-6648.
Crosby & Associates Inc. , based in Winter Haven, Florida, provides a full range of land and commercial real estate services throughout the United States, with an emphasis on Florida and the Southeast.
For more information:
Carl Carter, 205-823-3273
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crosby--associates-promotes-two-anticipates-more-growth-in-response-to-vibrant-land-market-300577694.html
SOURCE Crosby & Associates