Top News 
Deloitte survey: CFO optimism on the rise. 
Fortune got an advance look at the results of Deloitte’s Q4 2017 CFO Signals survey (results of which will be available here after 8 a.m. EST on Wednesday). The survey of chief financial officers at some of North America’s biggest companies found that more CFOs were optimistic about the current state of the domestic economy in the final quarter of 2017 than they were during the same period last year (74% said they were happy with current conditions, versus 64% last year). The CFOs also pointed to new technologies shaping their long-term business strategies, namely data analytics and automation. More than half of respondents say they are working on replacing more jobs with an automated workforce. 
Toyota, Mazda pick a U.S. plant site. 
Toyota Motor and Mazda Motor announced their pick for a U.S. site for a $1.6 billion assembly plant: Huntsville, Alabama. The news, which comes a year after Toyota promised to spend $10 billion in the U.S. over the next five years, is expected to bring 4,000 jobs to Huntsville, where the two Japanese automakers will manufacture up to 300,000 vehicles annually by 2021. The Wall Street Journal 
Intel promises security flaw fix, while senators seek probe of CEO share sale. 
While Intel CEO Brian Krzanich promised that a fix for the massive chip security flaws affecting his company’s microchips (as well as those of several rivals), two U.S. senators made a push to investigate Krzanich’s sale of a large chunk of his Intel shares last fall. Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island and Sen. John Kennedy of Louisiana, both members of the Senate Banking Committee, sent a letter to the SEC and the Justice Department on Tuesday asking for a probe of the share sale, which came after Intel was made aware of the security flaws, but long before that news went public just this month. Bloomberg 
$1 trillion for infrastructure. 
U.S. lawmakers are discussing plans to spend $1 trillion to improve the country’s infrastructure. A bipartisan group of senators met with Trump administration officials on Tuesday to discuss the proposed legislation, which include spending on improvements to the country’s roads, airports, seaports, and railway systems. While their is a bipartisan desire to get an infrastructure bill passed, the immense cost of a such an undertaking could also create political obstacles. Reuters Around the Water Cooler 
Are stocks actually cheap right now? 
Are stocks currently undervalued, as some cheerleading investors claim, or have the market’s record highs made stocks extremely expensive? Fortune ‘s Shawn Tully dives into the best ways to judge value on Wall Street. “Beware of bulls bearing forward earnings projections,” he warns. Fortune 
Trump is headed to Davos. 
The president plans to mingle with members of the global financial elite in Davos, Switzerland later this month for the annual World Economic Forum meetings. Trump is set to be the first sitting U.S. president to attend the Davos forum since Bill Clinton in 2000. Bloomberg 
Apple’s Ahrendts had brutally honest interview with CEO Tim Cook. 
Angela Ahrendts says she was didn’t shy away from the brutal truth when interviewing with Apple CEO Tim Cook a few years ago. Ahrendts, who left her job as CEO of luxury fashion retailer Burberry in 2014 to take over Apple’s retail business, said in a new interview that she told Cook at the time “I’m not a techie,” but that admission did not get in the way of her taking the job. ABC 
2017’s weather disasters cost U.S. $300 billion. 
The unprecedented glut of hurricanes in 2017, along with massive damage from fires, floods, and other weather-related events, cost the U.S. a record $306.2 billion in 2017. That’s the estimate from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which said three huge hurricanes (Harvey, Irma, and Maria) combined for most of the damage and the resulting costs. Fortune 