HAMILTON, Ohio, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Coolants Plus, the parent of STARFIRE branded products and one of the fastest growing oil companies in North America, has announced the purchase of Scot Lubricants, Inc, a blending and packaging facility in eastern Pennsylvania. The new Coolants Plus facility, to be named PennStar , houses 250,000 square feet of production space, 750,000 gallons of tank storage and a state-of-the-art testing lab, giving Coolants Plus and the STARFIRE brand more control over manufacturing, quality assurance and greater flexibility in production and packaging.
This acquisition not only establishes STARFIRE as a major player in the lubricants sector, but also adds capacity to blend and package more of its STARFIRE branded lubricants. The Ohio-based company has launched several new products in the past 12 months and expects to continue its growth and product line expansion in 2018.
"This is a major step in our mission to make STARFIRE the preferred choice of consumers globally," said Coolants Plus President and CEO Kurt Deimer. "This facility ensures we'll continue to deliver on our promise of the highest quality products at a competitive price."
Located in Northampton, Pennsylvania, the plant expands on Coolants Plus' nationwide distribution channel and will provide additional access and support to their distributors and customers. A fleet of PennStar trucks will also ensure that customer's delivery expectations are met.
"It's an exciting time for Coolants Plus," said Darrin Ward, COO. "This is a continuation of the growth we've already accomplished with the STARFIRE brand and underscores our commitment to our STARFIRE distribution network."
All STARFIRE lubricants meet or exceed manufacturer requirements. For bulk orders or to locate a distributor in your area, call 888.258.8723 or visit starfire1.com/contact.php .
STARFIRE® lubricants, antifreeze and chemicals and the STARFIRE logo are registered trademarks of Coolants Plus Inc. The STARFIRE family of products includes value-conscious lubricants, coolants, additives and other fluids for passenger vehicle, heavy duty, industrial, agricultural and other applications. For more information, visit STARFIRE1.com.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/starfire-parent-coolants-plus-acquires-pennsylvania-blending-and-packaging-facility-300576498.html
SOURCE STARFIRE