SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- First Republic Bank (NYSE: FRC), a leading private bank and wealth management company, today announced that Matthew Babrick and James Wilcox have joined First Republic Investment Management.
Babrick and Wilcox were each named Managing Director and will work in First Republic’s office in Century City. Both will provide investment management, retirement planning and other wealth management services to individuals, families, businesses, nonprofits and foundations.
“Matthew Babrick and James Wilcox are two very accomplished wealth managers who share First Republic’s commitment to exceptional client service,” said Bob Thornton, President of First Republic Private Wealth Management. “Matthew and James have extensive experience helping clients achieve their wealth management objectives, and they are a terrific complement to our private wealth management capabilities in Southern California.”
Babrick has more than 14 years of experience in the financial services industry. Babrick earned an MBA from the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California and a Bachelor of Science degree from the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University. Babrick received a basketball scholarship from Indiana University under renowned basketball coach, Bob Knight. After receiving his undergraduate degree, Babrick served as a men’s basketball scout at Stanford University. He serves on the board of the Alliance for Children’s Rights, American Friends of Hebrew University and Anti-Defamation League. Before joining First Republic, he worked for Goldman Sachs for more than 10 years and was Vice President in the Investment Management Division. Before that, he worked for Merrill Lynch in the Private Banking & Investment Group Division.
Wilcox has more than 18 years of experience in the wealth management industry. Wilcox began his career as Press Secretary to U.S. House Ways and Means Chairman, Bill Archer of Texas, in the U.S. House of Representatives. He earned an MBA from the Columbia Business School at Columbia University and a Bachelor of Arts degree from Middlebury College. Most recently, he worked for Goldman Sachs for 18 years and was Vice President in the Investment Management Division.
About First Republic Bank
Founded in 1985, First Republic and its subsidiaries offer private banking, private business banking and private wealth management, including investment, trust and brokerage services. First Republic specializes in delivering exceptional, relationship-based service, with a solid commitment to responsiveness and action. Services are offered through preferred banking or wealth management offices primarily in San Francisco, Palo Alto, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, Newport Beach and San Diego, California; Portland, Oregon; Boston, Massachusetts; Palm Beach, Florida; Greenwich, Connecticut; New York, New York; and later in 2018, Jackson, Wyoming. First Republic offers a complete line of banking products for individuals and businesses, including deposit services, as well as residential, commercial and personal loans. For more information, visit firstrepublic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005372/en/
Investors:
Addo Communications
Andrew Greenebaum, 310-829-5400
agreenebaum@addoir.com
Lasse Glassen, 310-829-5400
lglassen@addoir.com
or
Media:
Blue Marlin Partners
Greg Berardi, 415-239-7826
greg@bluemarlinpartners.com
Source: First Republic Bank