SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global Access®, a leading provider of cross-border commerce technologies and shipping solutions, has hired Doug Jones as vice president of sales.
Jones previously spent 17 years in senior management at Newgistics, which provides integrated e-commerce platform solutions, order fulfillment, parcel delivery and returns management primarily for domestic e-commerce sales. One of the company's first employees in 2000, Jones closed more than $100 million in new business and played an integral role in growing Newgistics to a $475 million company before it was sold to Pitney Bowes late last year.
"E-commerce continues to transform the way people shop around the world, creating enormous opportunities for retailers," Jones said. "From alternative payment methods to tax and duty calculations to cross-border delivery, international commerce presents unique challenges for retailers, and Global Access has nearly 20 years of experience helping companies successfully navigate those challenges around the world. It also provides innovative technology solutions that enhance the customer experience from check out to delivery, which is critical for any company seeking to enter or grow in international markets today."
Prior to Newgistics, Jones spent 10 years in sales and operations management roles at Pepsi Co.
"We're excited to have Doug on our team," said Global Access CEO David Nielsen. "Our company is poised for significant growth in 2018. Doug's experience and long-standing, executive-level relationships with many of the world's leading retailers and brands will help us meaningfully accelerate Global Access' share in the $1 trillion cross-border segment."
Global Access is a leading expert in international growth technology and logistics for retailers, providing clients with:
Cross-border expertise to help navigate the regulatory requirements of each country A technology platform that maintains transparency and control throughout the process An international logistics network scaled to their business
Founded in 2002, Global Access has shipped more than $1 billion in gross merchandise value to more than 184 countries.
About Global Access
Global Access is a leading provider of cross-border technology and logistics solutions that allow direct sellers and retailers to expand into the fastest growing markets and build growing global brands. The company's decades of cross-border expertise protects customers and brands by successfully navigating the regulatory requirements of each country and by providing their international consumers with the same seamless, branded experience enjoyed by domestic consumers. The Global Access technology platform ensures accuracy in duty and tax calculation and speedy customs clearance and maintains transparency and control throughout the order process with real-time data access delivering a superior customer experience that builds loyalty to our clients' brands.
Contact: Kate Morton
512-291-6491
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-access-names-doug-jones-vice-president-of-sales-300583630.html
SOURCE Global Access