SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Regency Centers Corporation (“Regency”), a national owner, operator, and developer of grocery-anchored shopping centers has acquired Scripps Ranch Marketplace. The 132,000 square foot shopping center is anchored by Vons as well as CVS, Starbucks, and other local operators.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006145/en/
Vons at Scripps Ranch (Photo: Business Wire)
“This property is a fantastic long-term acquisition for Regency and demonstrates our commitment to grow and enhance our portfolio in San Diego,” said Omar Hussein, Regency’s Vice President-Market Officer for the San Diego region. “Scripps Ranch Marketplace is located in a high-energy, growing retail corridor and will complement our two existing centers in the area, 4S Commons Town Center and Twin Peaks Plaza in Poway. Regency will ensure that Scripps Ranch Marketplace continues to be a go-to community destination, and we plan to enhance the center and merchandising mix over time.”
Scripps Ranch Marketplace is strategically located near Interstate 15 off Scripps Poway Parkway, which services over 225,000 vehicles per day. This acquisition brings Regency’s footprint in the San Diego area to over two million square feet of community-serving retail. Other Regency shopping centers in the San Diego region include: Costa Verde Center, Balboa Mesa Shopping Center, Friars Mission Center, The HUB Hillcrest Market, Point Loma Plaza, Navajo Shopping Center, El Norte Parkway Plaza and Rancho San Diego Village.
About Regency Centers Corporation (NYSE:REG)
Regency Centers is the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers located in affluent and densely populated trade areas. Our portfolio includes thriving properties merchandised with highly productive grocers, restaurants, service providers, and best-in-class retailers that connect to their neighborhoods, communities, and customers. Operating as a fully integrated real estate company, Regency Centers is a qualified real estate investment trust (REIT) that is self-administered, self-managed, and an S&P 500 Index member. For more information, please visit regencycenters.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006145/en/
Regency Centers Corporation
Eric Davidson, 904-598-7829
Communications Manager
EricDavidson@RegencyCenters.com
or
Omar Hussein, 858-847-4622
Vice President, Market Officer
OmarHussein@RegencyCenters.com
Source: Regency Centers Corporation