PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AmeriHealth Caritas announced the appointment of Cora Lee Klena as Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer, effective Jan. 10, 2018. Ms. Klena reports to Mark T. Bullock, Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer, and is responsible for the company’s communications, advertising, branding and thought leadership strategies.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005992/en/
Cora Lee Klena (Photo: Business Wire)
Ms. Klena has more than 25 years of communications and marketing experience in the insurance, financial services and technology industries. Prior to joining AmeriHealth Caritas, Ms. Klena served as senior vice president for Chubb, the world’s largest publicly traded P&C insurance company, running its marketing, communications, and re-branding for the North American market. She also served in communications leadership capacities at Swiss Re, USAA and E*TRADE.
“We are excited to have Cora join the team. Her distinguished work with major national brands makes her uniquely suited to advance our organization’s mission and brand during a transformational time in our industry,” said Paul A. Tufano, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AmeriHealth Caritas.
“This is an exciting time to join AmeriHealth Caritas, with opportunities for growth, innovation and partnership,” said Klena. “In this role, I look forward to building upon the organization’s mission and brand, which center on the care and health of its members and their communities.”
Ms. Klena earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wellesley College in Cognitive Science.
About AmeriHealth Caritas
AmeriHealth Caritas is part of the Independence Health Group in partnership with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan. AmeriHealth Caritas is one of the nation’s leaders in health care solutions for those most in need. Operating in 17 states and the District of Columbia, AmeriHealth Caritas serves more than 5.6 million Medicaid, Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) members through its integrated managed care products, pharmaceutical benefit management and specialty pharmacy services, behavioral health services, and other administrative services. Headquartered in Philadelphia, AmeriHealth Caritas is a mission-driven organization with more than 30 years of experience serving low-income and chronically ill populations. For more information, visit www.amerihealthcaritas.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005992/en/
AmeriHealth Caritas
Jawanza Keita, 1-267-298-5702
jkeita@amerihealthcaritas.com
Source: AmeriHealth Caritas