At Company’s Annual Meeting Today, Shareowners Reelect 12 Board Members
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend on common stock of 54 cents per share. The dividend is payable on April 27, 2018, to shareowners of record on April 6, 2018. It relates to the second quarter of the company’s 2018 fiscal year.
In other matters, Monsanto shareowners today elected 12 board members to serve new one-year terms ending with the company’s annual meeting in 2019. Elected board members include Dwight M. “Mitch” Barns; Gregory H. Boyce; David L. Chicoine, Ph.D.; Janice L. Fields; Hugh Grant; Laura K. Ipsen; Marcos M. Lutz; C. Steven McMillan; Jon R. Moeller; George H. Poste, Ph.D., D.V.M.; Robert J. Stevens; and Patricia Verduin, Ph.D.
Other voting results from the annual shareowners meeting will be noted in the company’s Form 8-K.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto is committed to bringing a broad range of solutions to help nourish our growing world. We produce seeds for fruits, vegetables and key crops - such as corn, soybeans, and cotton - that help farmers have better harvests while using water and other important resources more efficiently. We work to find sustainable solutions for soil health, help farmers use data to improve farming practices and conserve natural resources, and provide crop protection products to minimize damage from pests and disease. Through programs and partnerships, we collaborate with farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities and others to help tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges. To learn more about Monsanto, our commitments and our more than 20,000 dedicated employees, please visit monsanto.com . Follow our business on Twitter® at twitter.com/MonsantoCo .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131006023/en/
Monsanto Company
Media:
Christi Dixon, 314-694-1092
or
Analysts:
Laura Meyer, 314-694-8148
Source: Monsanto Company