OAKLAND, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Terry O'Neill , former president of the National Organization for Women and a longtime leader in the progressive movement, has been appointed Executive Director of the National Employment Lawyers Association ( NELA ).
"In Terry O'Neill we welcome a leader whose vision, intellect, and experience are as formidable as the challenges workers face today," said NELA President James H. Kaster. "Her skill in creating successful national campaigns will be critical as NELA confronts this moment in which attacks against the most vulnerable segments of our society are rampant in the workplace and beyond."
Founded in 1985, NELA's mission is to advance employee rights and serve lawyers who advocate for equality and justice in the American workplace. It is the country's largest professional organization of lawyers who primarily or exclusively represent employees in cases involving employment discrimination and other violations of workplace rights.
"NELA empowers attorneys who enforce our nation's civil rights laws for working people, which is more important now than ever," says Ms. O'Neill. "As the epidemic of sexual harassment in the workplace continues to be exposed, we are reminded of the need for advocates who will stand with workers and demand accountability. In this and other areas of employment law, the expertise of NELA members is unparalleled—no one knows the reality of protecting workers' rights better than those who do it on a daily basis. I am honored and excited to be a part of this vital community."
NELA levels the playing field for employee rights advocates against the greater resources of corporations and the defense bar. NELA and its 69 circuit, state, and local Affiliates have more than 4,000 members across the country.
Follow NELA on Twitter: @NELA_HQ .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/terry-oneill-former-president-of-now-to-lead-national-network-of-employee-rights-advocates-300578353.html
SOURCE National Employment Lawyers Association (NELA)