AURORA, Colo., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Children's Hospital Colorado (Children's Colorado) is pleased to announce that Raphe Schwartz joins the region's leading pediatric network this month as senior vice president and chief strategy officer.
Schwartz has worked alongside Children's Colorado for the past 15 years as a consultant with The Chartis Group , a comprehensive advisory and analytics services firm dedicated to the healthcare industry. As the lead in both children's hospitals and strategy, Schwartz has advised top children's hospitals, health systems and academic medical centers across the country, helping them achieve their missions by collaboratively addressing their most pressing strategic and operational challenges. With Schwartz's leadership, The Chartis Group has become the leading healthcare strategy firm for children's hospitals and one of the leading healthcare consulting firms in the country.
"Raphe's mastery of the industry is unmatched, and a personal passion has driven his dedication to pediatrics," said Jena Hausmann, president and CEO of Children's Colorado. "In addition, his leadership style perfectly fits our culture — one that embraces courageous and innovative visions, a constant quest for excellence, continual progress, positive energy, collaboration and team play. And, importantly, Raphe models our value of humble expertise."
Schwartz has directed transformational strategies and projects at hundreds of health systems, including over 30 children's hospitals. In addition, he is a regular speaker at national healthcare conferences and board retreats on strategy and children's health topics.
Schwartz graduated magna cum laude from Yale University with a Bachelor of Science in applied mathematics/operations research.
About Children's Hospital Colorado
Children's Hospital Colorado is a leading pediatric network 100 percent dedicated to the health and well-being of children, adolescents and young adults. Consistently acknowledged as one of the nation's top pediatric hospitals by U.S. News & World Report, Children's Colorado is recognized nationally and internationally for its medical, research, education and advocacy programs. It is at the forefront of research in childhood disease and pioneering treatments that are shaping the future of pediatrics, as well as offering everyday care for kids throughout Colorado and surrounding states. Founded in 1908, Children's Colorado offers a full spectrum of family-centered care at its urgent, emergency and specialty care locations throughout Metro Denver and Southern Colorado, including its location on the Anschutz Medical Campus. Scheduled to open in early 2019, the new Children's Hospital Colorado, Colorado Springs will be the first pediatric-only hospital in southern Colorado. For more information, visit www.childrenscolorado.org , or connect with us on Facebook and Twitter .
Children's Hospital Colorado complies with applicable Federal civil rights laws and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability, or sex.
ATENCIÓN: si habla español, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística. Llame al 1-720-777-9800. CHÚ Ý: Nếu bạn nói Tiếng Việt, có các
dịch vụ hỗ trợ ngôn ngữ miễn phí dành cho bạn. Gọi số 1-720-777-9800 http://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557
Media Contact:
Elizabeth Whitehead, Children's Hospital Colorado
720-777-6388; Elizabeth.Whitehead@childrenscolorado.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/raphe-schwartz-joins-childrens-hospital-colorado-as-new-senior-vp-and-chief-strategy-officer-300587580.html
SOURCE Children’s Hospital Colorado