AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- National Western Life Insurance Company (NWLIC) announced the recent addition of Andy Olson, CLU, ChFC, LUTCF to its distribution management ranks as Vice President and Head of General Agency Sales.
"While we have a strong following in the National Marketing Organization (NMO) space, many of those distributors are focused on annuity distribution," noted R. Bruce Wallace, NWLIC's Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Wallace added, "Many General Agencies are life insurance focused and National Western Life is placing a priority on expanding life sales. Andy's long-term relationships will help us establish a foothold with General Agencies to accomplish this goal. He will also be leading an initiative to expand our current life insurance portfolio."
"My career has been centered on helping advisors understand and sell life insurance," said Mr. Olson. "The Company's commitment to life insurance sales is a perfect opportunity to do what I do best."
About National Western Life:
National Western Life Insurance Company (NWLIC) is a wholly owned subsidiary of National Western Life Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: NWLI). Founded in 1956, NWLIC is a stock life insurance company with a broad portfolio of individual universal life, whole life and term insurance plans, as well as annuity products, which meet the financial needs of its customers in 49 states as well as residents of various international countries. NWLIC has 279 employees and approximately 28,800 contracted independent agents, brokers, producers, and consultants. At September 30, 2017, National Western Life Group, Inc. maintained consolidated total assets of $12.1 billion, stockholders' equity of $1.8 billion, and life insurance in force of $19.9 billion.
Release Contact:
Paul T. Garofoli
Vice President, Head of National Marketing Organization Sales
Phone: 800-760-3434, extension 207
FAX: 512-339-8350
pgarofoli@nationalwesternlife.com
www.nationalwesternlife.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/national-western-life-names-andy-olson-as-vice-president-and-head-of-general-agency-sales-300579109.html
SOURCE National Western Life Insurance Company