TALLINN, Estonia, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- A recent development with a major video sharing corporation has slashed revenue sharing with content producers, leaving small video makers out in the cold. This reiterates the urgent need for an open and fair environment for content producers, which decentralized video platform Viuly aims to provide.
Video content producers, particularly independent ones with modest online followings, have taken to social media to vent their disappointment with recent announcements from a major video hosting platform that will see thousands of small video producers dropped from revenue programs. The strict decision was apparently made to comply with advertiser guidelines, prompted by repeated scandals of offensive content appearing on the major platform.
The change in protocol has raised entry requirements for participants, effectively demonetizing a significant portion of video content. This will involve a high minimum number of subscribers as well as a minimum number of views imposed, essentially marooning entire communities of independent video makers and rising stars who will not make the cut.
How will Viuly's decentralized ecosystem benefit all video creators?
With the elimination of middlemen and their exorbitant commissions, revenue generated on the Viuly platform (currently in Alpha) is distributed in a fair and equitable manner, with content producers earning and viewers rewarded, with percentages far higher than that given by the current industry monopolies.
Video makers of all budgets and means will collectively share equal benefits on the Viuly ecosystem, earning revenue in the form of VIU tokens from the very first view on any video they upload, as there are no restrictive entry requirements.
VIU tokens are the native currency of the Viuly platform . They can be used by advertisers to purchase advertising packages, earned as rewards for viewing videos and earned by video makers for generating views on their videos.
As centralization restricts, Viuly liberates
Viuly's aim to revolutionize the video-sharing industry is founded on the belief that video content should be free for all through an open system of distributed content, without restrictions and limitations to access, imposed by centralized intermediaries.
As participation in revenue programs on centralized platforms get stricter with pre-approval, and still vulnerable to the inclusion of "offensive content," Viuly moderates its content through an entirely decentralized system. The platform will ensure that pre-approved content is rated and passed or marked for violation by peer-appointed moderators adhering to a common standard of community ethics.
All users will be able to access any content without worrying about geographical restrictions or access limitations commonly found on major video hosting platforms.
About Viuly
Viuly's mission is to disrupt the multi-billion dollar industry of online video-sharing with its blockchain-based solution. Through decentralization and transparency, it aims to create a fair and open video network operating on an equitable model of revenue sharing. VIU tokens are the native currency powering the Viuly video platform. They are used to transfer value between advertisers, content creators and users.
Viuly will be a full-fledged platform for users and content creators to share and watch videos, while immediately earning rewards for their interactions. This revolutionary ecosystem will enable a fair, unrestricted environment to share, watch, and upload any content.
Most recent Viuly platform statistics
Registered Users: 450 000
Total Channels: 30 000
Videos: 90 000
Unique Daily Visitors: 120 000
Learn more on Viuly's website: https://viuly.com
Check out the Viuly Alpha video platform at: https://viuly.io
Trade VIU with BTC at: https://bit-z.com
Trade VIU on OKEx Exchange: https://www.okex.com
Trade VIU with ETH at: https://etherdelta.com/#VIU-ETH
Read the Viuly Whitepaper: https://viuly.com/Viuly_Whitepaper.pdf
Chat with Viuly on Telegram: https://t.me/viulyofficial
Find Viuly on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/viuly
Follow Viuly on Twitter: https://twitter.com/ViulyOfficial
Join Viuly on bitcointalk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2353646
Catch up with Viuly on Medium: https://medium.com/@Viuly
Follow Viuly's progress on Coinmarketcap: https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/viuly
Media Contact
Contact Name: Ruslan Popa
Contact: support@viuly.com
Location: Tallinn, Estonia
Official Viuly Video: https://viuly.io/video/viuly-video-presentation-692
Viuly is the source of this content. Virtual currency is not legal tender, is not backed by the government, and accounts and value balances are not subject to consumer protections. This press release is for informational purposes only. The information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest.
Related Links
Viuly
Bitcoin PR Buzz
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/decentralized-video-sharing-platform-viuly-offers-video-makers-unrestricted-earnings-300590525.html
SOURCE Viuly