LAS VEGAS, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Digipath, Inc. (OTCQB: DIGP), a service-oriented independent testing laboratory and media firm focused on the developing cannabis market, will be holding a conference call to review its recently released results for the quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The conference call will take place at 4:15pm Eastern Time on Tuesday, January 9, 2018.
On the call from Digipath will be Mr. Joseph Bianco, CEO, Mr. Todd Denkin, COO/President, Dr. Cindy Orser, Chief Science Officer, and Mr. Todd Peterson, CFO.
There will be a Q&A session towards the end of the conference call. Interested parties that want to submit questions must do so prior to the call by sending an email to hphillips@viridianca.com .
The dial-in information for the conference call is as follows:
Dedicated Dial-In: (310) 372-7549
Toll-Free (U.S. & Canada): (800) 719-7514
Conference Code: 348812
About Digipath, Inc.
Digipath, Inc. supports the cannabis industry's best practices for reliable testing, cannabis education and training, and brings unbiased cannabis news coverage to the cannabis industry.
Digipath Labs provides pharmaceutical-grade analysis and testing to the cannabis industry to ensure producers, consumers, and patients know exactly what is in the cannabis they ingest and to help maximize the quality of its client's products through analysis, research, development, and standardization.
Investor Relations Contact
Harrison Phillips
Viridian Capital Advisors, LLC
212-209-3086
hphillips@viridianca.com
Information about Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that include information relating to future events. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by, which that performance or those results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time they are made and/or management's good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to: the Company's need for additional funding, the demand for the Company's products, governmental regulation of the cannabis industry, the Company's ability to maintain customer and strategic business relationships, the impact of competitive products and pricing, growth in targeted markets, the adequacy of the Company's liquidity and financial strength to support its growth, and other risks that may be detailed from time-to-time in the Company's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. For a more detailed description of the risk factors and uncertainties affecting Digipath, please refer to the Company's recent Securities and Exchange Commission filings, which are available at www.sec.gov . The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/digipath-to-hold-conference-call-to-review-results-for-the-fiscal-year-ended-september-30-2017-300578559.html
SOURCE DigiPath, Inc.