WALNUT CREEK, Calif., Insignia Capital Group today announced it has appointed Doug Gillespie as CEO-in-Residence. In his new position, Gillespie will work with Insignia to pursue new platform investments in the baby food and products sector.
Gillespie has 25+ years of successful leadership experiences in Fortune 500, founder-owned and PE-backed consumer companies and more specifically, 13 years of executive experience in the juvenile products category. Most recently, he was President & CEO of Harvest Hill Beverage Company (Juicy Juice and Little HUG brands). Prior to Harvest Hill, Gillespie served as President of Jarden Corporation's North American baby products business (NUK and Gerber brands). In addition, Gillespie spent six years at Munchkin, Inc. as Senior Vice President of Marketing.
"Insignia is committed to finding and partnering with the best CEOs and executives in our focus sectors. Doug is a proven executive with deep consumer experience with products targeted at parents and children," said Tiffany Obenchain, Managing Director at Insignia. "We are thrilled to partner with him to pursue an investment in the baby food and products sector, which is large, growing and undergoing significant change."
"Insignia has an outstanding consumer investment track record," said Gillespie. "I am excited to partner with them on this proactive investment initiative. It is an opportune time to invest in baby food and products as consumers move away from big brands, seek healthier products and increasingly buy online. These changes create opportunities for emerging brands and private label manufacturers."
Insignia's baby food and products initiative is targeting companies in all baby segments including accessories, food/formula, personal care, safety durables and toys.
About Insignia Capital Group
Insignia Capital Group is a San Francisco Bay Area private equity firm focused on lower middle-market companies. Insignia partners with company founders and management teams to help drive growth and achieve true business potential. The firm's principals have significant experience building businesses across a range of industries including consumer, business services and healthcare. For more information, please visit www.insigniacap.com .
About Doug Gillespie
Doug Gillespie began his career working for large multinational companies – GE Capital, Frito-Lay and Brown-Forman – and subsequently moved to middle market companies in progressively more senior roles. Gillespie was Senior Vice President of Marketing for Munchkin, Inc. (2005-2011) during a period of extraordinary growth. He was then President of Jarden Corporation's North American baby products business (2011-2016) and President of Jarden's Quickie Manufacturing Corporation (2014-2016), turning around two struggling businesses. Most recently, Gillespie was President & CEO of Harvest Hill Beverage Company (2016-2017). Gillespie received a B.A. in History (with a minor in Economics) from Vanderbilt University and an M.B.A. from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. Gillespie can be contacted at dgillespie@insigniacap.com .
 releases/insignia-capital-group-appoints-doug-gillespie-as-ceo-in-residence-and-launches-a-baby-food--products-investment-initiative-300586149.html
SOURCE Insignia Capital Group