January 5, 2018 / 11:09 AM / Updated an hour ago Fresh from Bannon feud, Trump meets Republican leaders to plot 2018 strategy Jeff Mason 4 Min Read 
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Following a disruptive start to 2018, President Donald Trump will huddle with top Republicans on a two-day retreat starting on Friday to lay out legislative priorities for the year and discuss a strategy for pivotal November congressional elections. FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump delivers remarks during an 'Unleashing American Energy' event at the Department of Energy in Washington, U.S., June 29, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria/File Photo 
Days after explosive comments by Trump’s former chief strategist, Steve Bannon, left the White House on the defensive, the president will sit down at Camp David with party leaders, including House of Representative Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. 
Trump achieved the first major legislative win of his presidency in December with tax legislation long sought by his party and its supporters. 
The president is eager for more victories and the White House has targeted infrastructure policy and an overhaul of entitlement programs as its top priorities. Immigration legislation, in particular a plan to help people who were brought to the United States illegally as children, is also on the agenda. 
While Trump and McConnell want to work on infrastructure first, Ryan is more interested in tackling entitlement programs such as welfare. 
A White House official said the timing of legislation would be discussed as well as the political priority of giving Republicans substantive issues to highlight ahead of November elections when the party will battle to keep control of Congress. 
All 435 members in the House and one-third of the 100 members in the Senate will be up for re-election. A Democratic takeover of one or both chambers could help stifle Trump’s agenda. 
The meeting at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, which will also include Cabinet officials, follows an uproar over the description in a new book of an inept Trump White House. In the book, Bannon also suggested the president’s son and son-in-law committed treason by meeting with a Russian official during the 2016 campaign. 
Trump broke with Bannon on Wednesday, saying his former adviser had “lost his mind” after the comments attributed to Bannon in Michael Wolff’s “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House” were made public. 
‘COMPLETE FANTASY’ 
The strategy session will provide an opportunity to switch topics after the furore over the book, which goes on sale on Friday. 
“The White House doesn’t mind the optics after a few days of the president unloading on Bannon and making our views clear on the book. The president sits down and charts the course forward ... with the actual leaders of the Republican Party,” a White House official said. 
Trump spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said on Thursday that Wolff’s book was a “complete fantasy” filled with tabloid gossip. “This is a guy who made up a lot of stories to try to sell books,” she said in an interview with Fox News Channel on Friday, referring to Wolff. 
Sanders also called for the conservative online outlet Breitbart News to consider parting ways with Bannon, who leads the group and had pledged to campaign for anti-establishment Republican candidates in the 2018 elections. 
Senate Republican Whip John Cornyn said the weekend meeting would help lawmakers and administration officials get on the same page about their priorities. 
“This administration came into office perhaps not really knowing for sure that they would win the election, and was a little bit behind the curve in terms of preparing. Now I think they’ve recognised that that sort of coordination is really important in order to get things done,” he told reporters on Thursday. 
”So I look forward to having those conversations and making sure that the president’s priorities and our priorities are aligned.” Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell, Steve Holland and Susan Heavey; Editing by Peter Cooney and Jeffrey Benkoe