SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Mazzetti Inc. , a global MEP engineering and technology consulting firm, and Atlanta-based PerryCrabb , progressive engineers serving the Southeast US, have merged. The merged company will retain the Mazzetti Inc. name.
“With the increasing nationalization of healthcare systems, facility owners need national design providers that can respond to their evolving needs,” said Walt Vernon, Mazzetti CEO. “The merger of Mazzetti and PerryCrabb unites the market leader in healthcare engineering and technology consulting with a nationally recognized engineering and strategic energy management firm. Together, we will provide a deeper, stronger bench in highly specialized healthcare infrastructure design to create forward-thinking, better environments.”
Jim Crabb, PerryCrabb CEO and President, will be a Mazzetti Principal and lead the East region of Mazzetti, based in the Atlanta office. All team members of the Atlanta office will remain. The combined firm will have a staff of 200 and 11 locations: Irvine, Sacramento and San Francisco, Calif.; Denver, Colo.; Atlanta, Ga.; Portland, Ore.; two offices in Nashville, Tenn.; Dallas, Texas; Seattle, Wash.; and Bengaluru, India.
“For nearly 60 years, the professionals of PerryCrabb have partnered with our clients to develop innovative designs that create healthy and sustainable indoor environments,” said Crabb. “As part of Mazzetti, we will expand our services and geographical reach to better serve our clients’ growing needs.”
For more than 55 years, Mazzetti has planned, designed and built the infrastructure for technologically advanced facilities. “Jim Crabb and I saw the opportunity to bring our complementary firms together, each firm finding the ideal partner to help our clients continue to move into the future,” said Vernon.
About Mazzetti
Mazzetti’s vision is to make the world a better place by creating better environments. Mazzetti provides world-class MEP engineering and technology consulting, tackling complex, energy-intensive buildings, specializing in Healthcare.
As an employee-owned Benefit Corporation with over 55 years of service in the industry, Mazzetti’s positive impact spans 20 countries around the globe. Through the firm’s unique vision, Mazzetti delivers technologically advanced buildings rooted in local culture, climate and economy.
About Perry Crabb
Since 1959, the professionals of PerryCrabb have designed and served healthcare facilities in Georgia and the Southeast. The firm is known for innovative, sustainable design, healthcare engineering expertise, and client-focused service.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006335/en/
Mazzetti Inc.
Jessica Hamann, 425-712-2171
jhamann@mazzetti.com
Source: Mazzetti Inc.