Independent Financial Advisory Firm Led by Industry Veteran Ray Empkey Brings Over $30 Million in Assets Under Management to Investacorp
MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Investacorp, Inc., a national independent broker-dealer and RIA representing more than 500 independent financial advisors throughout the U.S., today announced that Bedford, Texas-based Empkey Financial has joined the firm’s broker-dealer and RIA platform.
Empkey Financial is led by experienced financial advisor Ray Empkey, a veteran of the financial services industry since 1994. Empkey Financial provides retirement and estate planning services to individuals, families and small business owners. The firm also offers insurance planning, including life, disability, long-term care and Medicare insurance. Empkey Financial places the highest priority on comprehensive client service, and employs a holistic advisory approach to help clients understand their financial situation, guide them through the planning and investment management process, and help them pursue their long-term financial goals.
Ray Empkey said, “I am very excited to be affiliated with Investacorp. As part of my due diligence in selecting a new independent advisory and brokerage firm to align with, I spoke in detail with Investacorp’s compliance department and operations staff in order to gauge how they would work with me and, more importantly, how they would help me support my clients. I needed to ensure that we shared common values, since it’s a key component in the long-term relationships Empkey Financial has developed with our clients. During my home office due diligence, I also found the camaraderie among the staff very sincere. It was clear to me that they enjoy working at Investacorp, and I felt reassured that this closeness will extend to myself and my clients.”
The cornerstone of Empkey Financial’s practice is wealth accumulation planning for individuals approaching retirement and retirement income planning for retirees. The firm strives to provide unsurpassed client service while creating customized financial plans that reflect each client’s individual values and goals.
“It is a privilege to have Ray affiliate with Investacorp,” said Patrick Farrell, President of Investacorp. “He’s an active listener who goes the extra mile to understand his clients’ financial goals and anticipate their future challenges. The deep friendships Ray has formed with his clients are a clear reflection of his commitment to customer service, making him a great fit with Investacorp’s expert personal service and family philosophy.”
To contact Ray Empkey, please call 817-692-9097, email him at Ray@empkeyfinancial.com or visit www.empkeyfinancial.com for more information. Empkey Financial is located at 1600 Airport Freeway, Suite 352 in Bedford, Texas.
Securities by Licensed Individuals Offered Through Investacorp, Inc., a Registered Broker/Dealer. Member FINRA, SIPC. Advisory Services Offered Through Investacorp Advisory Services, Inc., a SEC Registered Investment Advisory Firm.
About Investacorp, Inc.
Investacorp, Inc. is a FINRA registered independent broker-dealer and Investacorp Advisory Services, Inc., a sister company, is an SEC registered RIA. Both firms are headquartered in Miami, Florida. Investacorp delivers an integrated digital platform that enables more than 500 independent financial advisors across the U.S. to provide investment solutions and wealth management advice to individuals, families, businesses and institutions. The boutique broker-dealer offers a family-friendly culture, long-tenured staff and expert personal service. Investacorp advisors are able to choose an affiliation model that best fits their clients’ needs, including independent broker-dealer representative, fee-based only or hybrid RIA. Investacorp also provides large-firm resources, financial stability and multi-generational practice transition expertise. Investacorp, Inc. is wholly-owned by Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc., (NYSE American: LTS, LTS PrA), which is a publicly-traded diversified financial services company based in Miami, Florida. For more information, visit www.Investacorp.com .
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005279/en/
Investacorp, Inc.
Leslie Vigil, 305-901-1825
Director of Recruiting
LVigil@investacorp.com
www.investacorp.com
Source: Investacorp, Inc.