Acquisition Enhances GAL’s Capabilities and Bolsters GAL’s Product Portfolio
BRONX, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- GAL Manufacturing (“GAL”), a leading North American designer, manufacturer, and distributor of elevator components and systems, and a portfolio company of Golden Gate Capital, is proud to announce the acquisition of Comprehensive Manufacturing Services, L.L.C. (“Courion” or “the Company”), a leading provider of door systems for freight elevators. Founded in 1921 and led by Owners and Principals Michael Garner and Bob Jackson, Courion boasts nearly a century of service to the industry and is a “one-stop-shop” for customers’ freight elevator needs. Mr. Garner and Mr. Jackson will remain in their current roles at Courion as part of the transaction.
The Company is headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri and produces Courion and Security Freight Door Systems, as well as CART-MATIC© and TOTE-MATIC© Cartlift Systems. Courion is also the exclusive provider of Courion, Harris Preble and Guilbert replacement parts. In New York City, Freight Tech, LLC, an IUEC contractor that is a wholly owned subsidiary of Courion, provides installation and 24/7 repair services for all types of freight door systems.
Mr. Jackson stated: “Our company has always respected what GAL stood for and we’re glad to be a part of their organization. Their reputation throughout the industry is outstanding, and we’re confident that this partnership will allow us to deliver even more superior products and service to our customers.”
Mark Boelhouwer, President and CEO of GAL, added: “Courion is a fantastic addition to the GAL family of companies. Courion’s products are highly complementary to GAL’s broad product portfolio, and Courion has established an excellent reputation for customer support and service that will bolster our efforts to provide an unrivaled range of products to independent elevator contractors and large elevator OEMs. We look forward to working closely with Michael, Bob and the entire Courion team.”
About GAL, GAL Canada and Hollister-Whitney
GAL is comprised of G.A.L Manufacturing Company, LLC, G.A.L Canada Elevator Products Corporation and Hollister-Whitney Elevator Corporation. The Company supplies nearly every electromechanical component used on elevator systems, including door operators and associated door equipment, geared and gearless traction machines, universally compatible microprocessor controllers, safety components, signal fixtures, push button panels, and structural assemblies. The Company sells products to a diverse range of customers including thousands of independent elevator contractors and large elevator OEMs.
GAL Websites
GAL: www.gal.com
GAL Canada: www.galcanada.com
Hollister-Whitney: www.hollisterwhitney.com
Courion Doors: www.couriondoors.com
About Golden Gate Capital
Golden Gate Capital is a San Francisco-based private equity investment firm with over $15 billion of capital under management. The principals of Golden Gate Capital have a long and successful history of investing across a wide range of industries and transaction types, including going-privates, corporate divestitures, and recapitalizations, as well as debt and public equity investments. Notable investments sponsored by Golden Gate Capital include Cole-Parmer, Tronair, ANGUS, Springs Window Fashions, Humanetics Innovative Solutions, EP Minerals, and U.S. Silica. For more information, visit www.goldengatecap.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006582/en/
Sard Verbinnen & Co
David Isaacs / Hayley Fahey
(415) 618-8750 / (310) 201-2040
DIsaacs@sardverb.com / HFahey@sardverb.com
Source: GAL Manufacturing