ALPINE, Calif., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- A five-month-old white tiger cub has been seized from an unpermitted location in Louisiana and relocated to an exotic animal sanctuary in California.
The orphaned female cub, who does not yet have a name, required immediate medical attention for conditions consistent with severe neglect. She is now responding well to treatment. The whereabouts of the cub's parents are unknown.
"Unfortunately, we see this all too often," says Bobbi Brink, Founder and Director of Lions Tigers & Bears Big Cat and Exotic Animal Rescue, the accredited animal sanctuary where the tiger will now live out the rest of her life. "The exotic pet trade is a multi-billion dollar industry, often leading to illegal ownership like in this case. Many of these animals are pulled from their mothers when they are only days old. They are then subjected to very poor living conditions at the hands of individuals who quickly become overwhelmed by the level of care a full-grown wild animal requires. This in turn poses a very real threat to public health and safety."
The tiger cub arrived at Lions Tigers & Bears on December 22, 2017, where she continues to receive ongoing medical care.
White tigers are not classified as a subspecies, nor are they considered albino. The lack of color in the animal's fur is referred to as leucism, a genetic mutation that occurs naturally in 1 out of every 10,000 births among Bengal tigers in the wild.
Call or email in advance to attend a Media Preview Day of the tiger cub on Thursday, January 4, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. at Lions Tigers & Bears.
About Lions Tigers & Bears
Lions Tigers & Bears is a federally and state licensed 501(c)(3) nonprofit rescue facility dedicated to providing a safe haven to abused and abandoned exotic animals while inspiring an educational forum to end the exotic animal trade. Lions Tigers & Bears is a NO KILL, NO BREED and NO SELL facility that allows the animals in its care the opportunity to live out their lives with dignity in a caring and safe environment. Lions Tigers & Bears is one of the few sanctuaries in the United States with the highest level of accreditation from the Global Federation of Animal Sanctuaries and the American Sanctuary Association.
Media Contact
Bobbi Brink
Direct: (619) 884-2053
brinkdsign@aol.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rescued-white-tiger-cub-gets-new-home-at-animal-sanctuary-300576668.html
SOURCE Lions Tigers & Bears