Austin, TX, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MEDIA ADVISORY: Lion Street Announces Adam Sandahl as Senior Vice President of Corporate and Business Solutions
AUSTIN, Texas ---- Lion Street has named Adam Sandahl Senior Vice President of Corporate and Business Solutions.
Adam has been in the corporate-owned life arena for nearly 30 years, most recently as the SVP of the Newport Group. In his new role, Sandahl will lead the expansion of Lion Street’s national presence in the corporate and business solutions market.
“We’re excited to have Adam on our team,” said Bob Carter, Lion Street’s CEO and Founder. “He is highly qualified to lead this sector of our business. With him on board, we can rapidly expand our impact and become the leading distributor of multi-life solutions through Lion Street’s 150+ Owner Firms.”
Adam’s expertise will augment Lion Street’s current partnership with PenCal which provides deferred compensation and benefits design for executives. Other Lion Street Owners including Executive Benefit Solutions, Izale and The Westport Group will amplify the arsenal of corporate solutions Owner Firms offer to clients.
“Being a crucial part of an exponentially growing company that is well positioned for the changes taking place in this market is what drives me to this opportunity,” said Sandahl.
Carter added “the addition of Adam’s leadership and experience to our existing Corporate & Business Solutions platform will escalate our firms’ dominance in this market.”
About Lion Street
Lion Street is a leading, privately-held financial services company based in Austin, Texas. Lion Street provides elite independent life insurance producers and financial advisors access to the financial products, intellectual capital, and specialized resources they need to meet the sophisticated needs of their high-net-worth and corporate clients. To learn more about Lion Street, please visit https://lionstreet.com
Media Contact:
Karyn Hamilton, VP, Marketing
khamilton@lionstreet.com
(512) 776-8466
###
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/34e13949-a4c7-40b2-ab1b-bdbd2add8b14
Source:Lion Street