CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- LSC Communications, Inc. (NYSE: LKSD) announced today that it will report fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 results and host a conference call on Thursday, February 22, 2018. The conference call and live webcast will begin at 10:00 am Eastern Time. The live webcast will be accessible on LSC’s web site: www.lsccom.com .
Individuals wishing to dial in to the call or access the live presentation must register in advance at the following link . After registering, participants will receive dial-in numbers, a passcode, and a link to access the live event.
A webcast replay will be archived on the company’s web site for 90 days after the call.
About LSC Communications
With a rich history of industry experience, innovative solutions and service reliability, LSC Communications (NYSE: LKSD) is a global leader in print and digital media solutions. Our traditional and digital print-related services and office products serve the needs of publishers, merchandisers and retailers around the world. With advanced technology and a consultative approach, our supply chain solutions meet the needs of each business by getting their content into the right hands as efficiently as possible.
For more information about LSC Communications, visit www.lsccom.com .
Use of Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and any such forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release and are based on current expectations and involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, including risks associated with the ability of LSC Communications to perform as expected as a separate, independent entity and risks associated with the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy. Readers are strongly encouraged to read the full cautionary statements contained in LSC’s filings with the SEC. LSC disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006091/en/
Investor Contact
LSC Communications, Inc.
Janet Halpin, SVP Treasurer and Investor Relations
E-mail: investor.relations@lsccom.com
Tel: 773-272-9275
Source: LSC Communications, Inc.