CARROLLTON, Texas, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- M&A Technology continues to innovate with the latest technology and is shipping its Manda Miner which can be configured as an Ethereum or ZCash mining server. The Manda Miner is available now.
www.mandaminer.com
The Manda Miner is a purpose built, application specific server solution for the cryptocurrency market. It performs at ~200MH/s for Ethereum or ~2400H/s for ZCash. The system designed by experienced cryptocurrency systems engineers is assembled at an ISO certified factory in Texas with the highest quality materials available.
The Manda Miner is a data center ready, performance optimized cool and quiet running cryptocurrency mining server. The Manda Miner is FCC B verified and housed in a 4U chassis specifically for crypto-mining purposes functional as a standalone unit or as a data center cabinet rack-mountable unit. The system's eight high performance graphics cards are optimized to interface with a standard motherboard for manageability and high quality performance. The system utilizes a highly efficient power supply and cooling fans designed to ensure operational efficiency and reliability.
We have custom tailored and optimized the operating system so the end user can easily configure their wallet and start to collect either Ethereum or ZCash cryptocurrency. The Manda Miner has been designed to plug in, turn on, configure your wallet, assign your pool, and collect currency. The Manda Miner is also rack-mountable which means the system can work well in a 24U or 42U rack cabinet.
Find out more about this professionally built server and why it is the right solution for your Ethereum and ZCash mining needs.
www.mandaminer.com
About M&A Technology, Inc.
M&A Technology's focus is on providing complete solutions to its customers, from product selection to delivery, followed by excellent support. We work closely with our customers to understand their unique requirements and then build a support plan to provide complete customer satisfaction. To handle our customers' requirements, we manufacture our own line of Desktop PC's, Servers, and other IT and OT products in our 36,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Carrollton, Texas.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ma-technology-is-now-shipping-its-new-cryptocurrency-product-manda-miner-300576572.html
SOURCE M&A Technology, Inc.