Modernizing Medicine Announces Increased Investments in gMed’s gGastro® Platform
BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Specialty-specific health information technology leader, Modernizing Medicine, Inc. , announces the addition of Dr. Arnold G. Levy as an advisor for gMed, Inc. , a Modernizing Medicine company. Dr. Levy is a renowned gastroenterologist with over 40 years of clinical experience. In his new role, he will advise the further advancement of the award-winning gGastro suite of products and services with recently announced enhancements through collaboration with current clients, the gMed product team and Modernizing Medicine’s leadership.
Dr. Levy is an industry leader who has previously served as a member of the National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board and the Board of the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse. He is also a past president of the Maryland Patient Care and Access Coalition and co-founder and former president/CEO of Capital Digestive Care, a 60 physician specialty group in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area which uses gGastro products including the gMed cloud, patient portal, gPM™ practice management system, gInsights™ analytics platform, the ERW (endo report writer), and the gGastro EHR, gMed’s award-winning gastroenterology electronic health records (EHR) system. He also maintains an academic appointment as an associate clinical professor of Medicine at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences.
The addition of Dr. Levy follows a recent announcement at MOMENTUM , Modernizing Medicine’s users conference, of the strategic decision to substantially increase the company’s investment in the gGastro platform so that it can remain the leading GI EHR system. Key features and functionality requested by clients include:
Additional mobile capabilities Patient engagement features New integration tools Clinical decision support and clinical content enhancements Performance enhancements Expanded reporting capabilities for both the gPM practice management system and the gInsights analytics platform
“I am excited to serve as an advisor to Modernizing Medicine for its gMed suite of products and services and to work closely with the team and current clients as we continue to develop important clinical and performance improvements,” Dr. Levy shared. “By expanding gGastro’s industry-leading platform, we can help gastroenterologists thrive today and beyond.”
“Dr. Arnold Levy joining the team will help Modernizing Medicine maintain a deep focus on the specialty needs of the GI community,” stated Jim Weber, MD, CEO, Texas Digestive Disease Consultants. “Dr. Levy’s reputation as an exceptional gastroenterologist and physician leader makes him a valuable asset to all of us who utilize gGastro, and I am excited to see him provide his expertise to the gMed team. I have known Arnie for a long time and I feel that his leadership will help gGastro evolve to serve gastroenterologists in today’s ever-changing healthcare landscape.”
For more information about gGastro and the full suite of products and services, please visit www.gmed.com .
About Modernizing Medicine
Modernizing Medicine® and its affiliated companies are transforming how healthcare information is created, consumed and utilized in order to increase practice efficiency and improve patient outcomes. Our specialty-specific, data-driven and cloud-based electronic health records (EHR) and practice management (PM) systems, plus revenue cycle management (RCM) services, were built by a team including specialty physicians and practice management professionals. Our suite of products and services is designed to transform the clinical, financial and operational aspects of dermatology, gastroenterology, ophthalmology, orthopedics, otolaryngology, pain management, plastic surgery and urology practices. We also offer products designed specifically for ambulatory surgery centers. For more information, please visit www.modmed.com . Connect with Modernizing Medicine on our Blog , Facebook , LinkedIn and Twitter .
About gMed, a Modernizing Medicine Company
gMed, a Modernizing Medicine company, provides the gastroenterology industry with a fully integrated platform consisting of an EHR system, Endoscopy Report Writer, practice management solution, patient portal, data analytics and revenue cycle management services.
gMed Canada, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of gMed, Inc. For more information, please visit www.gmed.ca or call 604-260-5504.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005171/en/
Modernizing Medicine
Tara Auclair, 561-880-2998 x1321
tara.auclair@modmed.com
www.modmed.com
or
Matter
Jessica Wolter, 978-518-4536
modmed@matternow.com
www.matternow.com
Source: Modernizing Medicine