(Adds company news items, futures) Jan 4 (Reuters) - Britain's FTSE 100 index is seen opening 13 points firmer at 7,684.4 on Thursday, according to financial bookmakers, with futures up 0.2 percent ahead of the cash market open. * WHITBREAD: Whitbread , owner of Costa Coffee and Premier Inn, on Thursday named Adam Crozier as Chairman to replace Richard Baker, who will be retiring at the end of February. * SAGA: Saga SAGAG.L has restructured its travel business, after the tourism and insurance group for the over 50s said last month that the failure of Monarch Airlines had hit its tour operations. * ROTORK: British industrial group Rotork named Kevin Hostetler as its chief executive on Thursday, in place of Peter France who resigned in July last year. * BHP: Vale SA is in talks with BHP Billiton Ltd over the future of their joint venture, Samarco Mineração SA, and one alternative is for the Brazilian miner to buy out its partner, a source with knowledge of the matter said. * GOLD: Prices fell on Thursday after hitting a 3-1/2-month high the session before, pulled down as investors took profits and as the U.S. dollar firmed. * OIL: Oil prices on Thursday hit fresh two-and-a-half year highs and were at levels last seen at the start of the commodity slump in 2014/2015, with markets tightening amid tensions in Iran and due to ongoing OPEC-led production cuts. * EX-DIVS: British Land Compay , Experian and Next Plc will trade without entitlement to their latest dividend pay-out on Thursday, trimming 0.84 points off the FTSE 100 according to Reuters calculations * The UK blue chip index closed 0.4 percent higher on Thursday as oil majors jumped higher and the U.S. dollar gained back ground against sterling, helping UK-listed dollar earners. * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: cpurl://apps.cp./cms/?pageId=livemarkets TODAY'S UK PAPERS > Financial Times > Other business headlines Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit topnews.session.rservices.com * For Top News : topnews.reuters.com (Reporting by Hanna Paul in Bengaluru)
 