CAMBRIDGE, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cue Biopharma ™, Inc., (NASDAQ: CUE) an immunotherapy company developing a novel, proprietary class of biologics engineered to selectively modulate the human immune system to treat cancer and autoimmune diseases, today announced the closing of its initial public offering of 8,820,710 shares of its common stock at a public offering price of $7.50 per share on December 27, 2017. The gross proceeds from the offering were approximately $66.2 million, before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses. Shares of the stock will begin trading today on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol “CUE.”
MDB Capital Group acted as sole book-running manager for the offering. Feltl and Company, Inc. acted as qualified independent underwriter for the offering.
A registration statement relating to the securities offered and sold in the offering was filed with, and declared effective by, the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 14, 2017. A final copy of the prospectus relating to the offering has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and may be obtained from MDB Capital Group, Attention: Prospectus Department, 2425 Cedar Springs Road, Dallas, TX 75201 or by telephone at (310)-526-5000.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any offer or sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
About Cue Biopharma
Cue Biopharma™ is an innovative immunotherapy company developing a novel, proprietary class of biologics engineered to selectively modulate the human immune system to treat a broad range of cancers and autoimmune disorders. We design biologics to engage and modulate the activity of disease-associated T cells in the patient’s body, offering significant therapeutic advantages while potentially minimizing or eliminating unwanted side effects.
We believe our biologics allow us to target antigen-specific T cell populations in a variety of indications using a simple peptide exchange within previously-validated drug frameworks developed from the Cue Biologics Platform™. This flexibility could truncate the drug selection and development process, moving effective therapeutics from discovery to clinical validation more rapidly and cost efficiently than current industry standard timelines and costs.
Headquartered in Kendall Square, Cambridge, MA, we are led by an experienced management team and scientific and clinical advisory board (SAB/CAB) with deep expertise in the design and clinical development of protein biologics, immunology and immuno-oncology.
For more information, visit www.cuebio.com .
About MDB Capital Group
MDB Capital Group sponsors scientists and entrepreneurs that possess meaningful technology which has the potential to impact significant commercial markets and benefit humanity. MDB maximizes the probability of commercialization by positioning companies as a leader in their technology domain, connecting them with a community of high quality investors and bringing the companies public during the development phase.
For more information, visit www.mdb.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements in this release that are not based on historical fact are "forward-looking statements." While management has based any forward-looking statements included in this release on its current expectations, the information on which such expectations were based may change. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, as a result of various factors including those risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of our recently filed Registration Statement on Form S-1, which can be found on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . We urge you to consider those risks and uncertainties in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein (or elsewhere) to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005126/en/
Media:
Sam Brown Inc.
Cory Tromblee, 617-571-7220
or
Investors:
Cue Biopharma
Kerri-Ann Millar, 617-949-2602
Source: Cue Biopharm, Inc.