HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Marco Group International (“Marco”) announced today it has completed the acquisition of JAD Equipment Co. (“JAD”), a Youngstown based distributor of surface preparation equipment and consumables. JAD has distributed surface preparation equipment, parts and supplies to industrial contractors primarily in the industrial and infrastructure markets since 2001.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005684/en/
Founded in 1944, Marco is a manufacturer and distributor of surface preparation equipment and consumables to industrial contractors in the industrial, infrastructure, and downstream energy markets throughout the United States and internationally. Marco serves industrial contractors by offering a comprehensive line of abrasives, blasting equipment, coating equipment, engineered systems, rental equipment and safety products. Marco also provides in-field services for repairs and in-house design teams for custom solutions.
“We are excited to join the Marco team,” said Joe Hunsbarger, co-founder and owner of JAD. “Marco has built an industry leading platform, and we believe our customers will benefit from the company’s national reach and deep product portfolio. We are excited to be a part of the Marco organization going forward.”
“JAD is an excellent fit for Marco,” commented Randy Roth, CEO of Marco. “The acquisition will deepen Marco’s footprint in the Midwest region while also strengthening the company’s presence within the industrial and infrastructure markets. We continue to see numerous opportunities to partner with other business owners in order to expand our footprint and broaden our capabilities. The JAD acquisition is an important step in the execution of our buy and build strategy.”
Marco is a portfolio company of The CapStreet Group.
About The CapStreet Group
The CapStreet Group is a Houston, Texas based private equity firm that invests in entrepreneur, family or employee-owned, lower middle market companies. We take a partnership approach and target companies operating in the industrial and business services sectors. We provide expertise, resources and capital to accelerate growth, creating long term sustainable businesses. For more information, visit our website, www.capstreet.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005684/en/
The CapStreet Group
Libby Covington, 713.332.2748
lcovington@capstreet.com
Source: Marco Group International