NEW YORK and SHANGHAI, Ruder Finn, a leading independent creative and communications agency, today announced two senior level promotions among its global leadership team. Jean-Michel Dumont has been promoted from Chairman of Ruder Finn Asia to Head of International Strategy; and Elan Shou has been elevated from Managing Director of Ruder Finn Greater China to Regional Director of Asia.
"Both Jean-Michel and Elan are two of our most talented leaders at Ruder Finn," says Kathy Bloomgarden, Ruder Finn CEO. "With their new roles, they will be able to take their leadership talent, business growth success and partnership development to benefit the broader agency across global offices."
Dumont, who was listed in the PRWeek Global Power Book 2017 as one of the most influential PR professionals in the world, received the Sabre Individual Achievement Award 2016 and Consultancy Professional of the Year at Public Affairs Asia Gold Standard Awards 2015, has been overseeing Ruder Finn Asia operations since 2008. He is credited for building the company's strong presence in the region, including the opening of three offices in India and one in Malaysia, and creating a conflict agency, RF Thunder as well as its digital division, RFI, including its Asia expansion through the acquisition of Daylight Partnership. Prior to that he was in charge of the agency's China operations for seven years, where he helped set the foundations to Ruder Finn's leadership. He will bring this focus on growth to the broader Ruder Finn global network, with an initial emphasis on building Ruder Finn's presence in the EMEA region.
Shou, who was named PR Agency Head of the Year by PRWeek Awards Asia in 2016, has grown the Ruder Finn China region to one of the most profitable among the agency. She has followed the growth of the Chinese market by continuing to build on Ruder Finn's strength in luxury and branding, as well as expertise in integrated marketing communications (IMC). With a laser focus on winning large-scale projects from international brands such as Shanghai Disney Resorts and Tencent, Elan has strengthened the Ruder Finn brand in China to become one of the top agencies in the country – Ruder Finn has been continuously ranked No. 1 by China client-side marketers for contribution to business success in the R3 Worldwide China 2015 and 2017 PR Scope Research .
Elan Shou will continue to be based in Shanghai and Jean-Michel Dumont will relocate to Europe during summer 2018, after the transition is finalized.
About Ruder Finn
Ruder Finn, Inc. is one of the world's largest independent global communications and creative agencies with dual headquarters in the United States and China. Founded in 1948, Ruder Finn serves the global and local communication needs of over 250 corporations, governments, not-for-profit organizations, and start-ups. The agency is organized around four strategic pillars that reflect its core areas of expertise: Health & Wellness, Corporate Reputation & Transformation, Technology & Innovation, and Consumer Connections. RFI Studios, the agency's full-service digital practice, leads the industry in designing and developing internal collaboration platforms, building conversations, and communities around brands, and staying top-of-mind in the world of mobile applications. For more information, visit www.ruderfinn.com .
Media Contacts
Swee Kok (Asia)
sweekok@RuderFinnAsia.com
Sarah Coles (US)
ColesS@RuderFinn.com
+1 (212) 583-6393
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ruder-finn-promotes-jean-michel-dumont-to-international-role-elan-shou-to-oversee-asia-operations-300580246.html
SOURCE Ruder Finn