Arizona Leaders Bring Deep MedTech, Software, Expense Management and Supply Chain Management Experience to the Technology Advocacy Organization
PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Arizona Technology Council today announced it has appointed Dr. Randall Porter, director, Barrow Acoustic Neuroma Center; Daman Wood, COO, MDSL; Calline Sanchez, vice president, IBM; and Eugene Jaramillo, deputy to the vice president of RMS supply chain management, Raytheon Missile Systems, to its board of directors. All four were elected unanimously to serve three-year terms at the Council’s quarterly board meeting held January 18.
“These tech titans are tremendous additions to our board and we look forward to working with them,” said Steven G. Zylstra, president and CEO of the Arizona Technology Council. “Their diverse range of experience and technology backgrounds will be an important asset to the Council as we continue to advance our agenda designed to make a positive and lasting impact on Arizona’s technology industry.”
The following resolutions also were announced at the quarterly board of directors meeting:
David Tuhy, general manager, NSG Software Division, Intel, has been appointed to serve as first vice-chairman of the board for a two-year term ending January 18, 2020. Alex J. Iuorio, senior vice president, supplier marketing and business development, Avnet, has been appointed to serve as second vice-chairman of the board for a three-year term ending January 18, 2021.
The Council's board of directors serves an advisory and fiduciary role by representing the interests of the state’s technology industries in the Council's strategic planning and ongoing operations. The current board includes 40 members representing a diverse set of organizations.
Porter, Wood, Sanchez and Jaramillo provide a unique perspective on the industry, as well as strong backgrounds in a wide variety of technology and business roles. Their respective biographies are:
Dr. Randall Porter, director, Barrow Acoustic Neuroma Center
Dr. Randall Porter received a B.A. in economics from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas, and completed medical school at Rush Medical College in Chicago. He completed his residency and fellowship at the Barrow Neurological Institute in 2000. He is certified by the American Board of Neurological Surgery. Porter has published more than 75 peer-reviewed papers and 30 chapters in major medical textbooks, and has spoken at more than 100 professional meetings throughout the country.
Daman Wood, chief operating officer, MDSL
Daman Wood has worked in multiple technology organizations with a primary focus on telecommunications. He is a recognized thought leader in the industry, and is responsible for managed services and global operations across the organization. Prior to MDSL, Wood was the lead executive for Vonage’s nationwide Service Delivery Operations. He also served as the head of operations for Telesphere, leading all operational aspects for the company before it was acquired by Vonage in December 2015.
Calline Sanchez, vice president, IBM Enterprise Systems Storage
Calline Sanchez is responsible for worldwide development of IBM's Enterprise Storage Systems, including DS8000, physical/virtual tape and backup/archive solutions. Prior to this role, she was vice president of IBM Systems Storage Program Management. Sanchez led a worldwide team of program managers, engineers and scientists representing locations worldwide to deliver the IBM Systems Storage product portfolio. Her execution focus is to deliver the best of breed technology products/solutions to the marketplace. Sanchez has a B.S.B.A. in management information systems, a B.A. in communications and an MBA with an emphasis in finance — all from The University of Arizona.
Eugene Jaramillo, deputy to the vice president of RMS supply chain management, Raytheon Missile Systems
Eugene Jaramillo supports subcontract management, general procurement, production control, property management, supplier engineering, logistics activities and supplier program management at Raytheon Missile Systems. Prior to joining Raytheon in 2003, Jaramillo held a variety of leadership positions at Boeing Company in quality assurance, supplier quality, production and operations. He has more than 30 years of experience in the defense and aerospace industry, driving quality and improving customer satisfaction on key programs involving multiple customers and technologies.
Companies represented on the Council’s board of directors include:
AccountabilIT; Alerion Capital Group; Alliance Bank of Arizona; American Express; APS, Aspect; ASU Knowledge Enterprise Development; Avnet; Ballard Spahr; Barrow Neurological Institute; BeyondTrust; CISCO; Cox Communications; EY; Honeywell Aerospace; IBM; Indecomm Global Services; Insight Enterprises; Intel; JVP Strategic Consulting; LaneTerralever; MDSL; MSS Technologies; PADT; PayPal; Phoenix Art Museum; Phoenix Business Journal; Quarles & Brady; Raytheon Missile Systems; Ryley Carlock & Applewhite; Securaplane Technologies; Solugenix; Symantec; TGen; Research, Discovery & Innovation at The University of Arizona; Uber Technologies; University of Advancing Technology; Vonage Business Solutions Group; and Wells Fargo Bank.
About the Arizona Technology Council
The Arizona Technology Council is Arizona’s premier trade association for science and technology companies. Recognized as having a diverse professional business community, Council members work towards furthering the advancement of technology in Arizona through leadership, education, legislation and social action. The Council offers numerous events, educational forums and business conferences that bring together visionaries, leaders and employees to make an impact on the technology industry. These interactions contribute to the Council’s culture of growing member businesses and transforming technology in Arizona. To become a member or to learn more about the Arizona Technology Council, please visit http://www.aztechcouncil.org .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005543/en/
Media contact:
TechTHiNQ
Alec Robertson, 585-281-6399
alec.robertson@techthinq.com
or
Organization contact:
Arizona Technology Council
Steven G. Zylstra, 602-422-9447
szylstra@aztechcouncil.org
Source: Arizona Technology Council