EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn., Dealer Teamwork is so pleased and excited to welcome Ann de St. Aubin to the team as Senior Director of Client Services. A good place to begin is with their Leader, CEO Sean Stapleton---"We brought Ann to The Team so she could use her experience and knowledge to help educate, manage and train our Account Managers." Ann offers her view in sharing, "I'm excited to help the Account Managers heighten their relationships with the Dealers. Not only will my experience help Dealer Teamwork enhance our relationships with Dealers, but it will empower the Client Services Team with knowledge so they can better relate and work with their clients."
Most recently, Ann was General Sales Manager for AutoNation Ford, previously Tousley Ford, of White Bear Lake. Ann was in this position since 2000---and was previously in aftermarket, finance and sales. She has exclusive knowledge of Dealer's heightened interests in Digital Marketing, so she can represent the Dealer's voice at Dealer Teamwork. Ann again expresses herself so well in why she is joining the company---"The people, the vision and the future of where the business is going. The integrity of Dealer Teamwork and sincerity in how we want the Dealers to successfully be using the MPOP™ tool. I want to be an advocate for the Dealers and their perspective. I want to be an integral part of The Dealer Teamwork core goal of Putting Dealers First!"
Ann will further help Dealer Teamwork to continue becoming the most revolutionary Digital Marketing Company in the Industry---as they partner with Dealerships, Large Dealer Groups and OEMs to grow and enhance their Loyal Customer Base! Again, welcome aboard Ann!
About Dealer Teamwork:
Dealer Teamwork is a SaaS Company creating first-class solutions for the retail automotive industry. Dealer Teamwork created the automotive industry's first MPOP™, a patented Merchandising, Personalization, and Optimization Platform. The Platform creates a significant competitive advantage for Dealers by distributing their transactional data to more in-market shoppers effectively and efficiently. For more information, please visit DealerTeamwork.com or visit the Dealer Teamwork FAQ page .
Dealer Teamwork's headquarters is in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, and services an international customer base from offices in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New York and Texas.
Photo(s):
https://www.prlog.org/12688695
Press release distributed by PRLog
 : releases/dealer-teamwork-names-ann-de-st-aubin-senior-director-of-client-services-300588532.html
SOURCE Dealer Teamwork