DALLAS, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BBG, a leading independent national commercial real-estate valuation, advisory and assessment firm, today announced that it has promoted Michelle van de Pol, MAI, SRA, MRICS, to Managing Director of the firm's San Francisco and Sacramento's offices.
With more than 18 years of experience in consultation and valuation analysis of commercial and complex real estate properties, Ms. van de Pol, who previously served as the Director of BBG's San Francisco office, has worked on a broad range of commercial appraisal assignments for the firm in San Francisco, Sacramento and surrounding areas in California's Central Valley.
Her experience includes appraisal, appraisal review, consulting and feasibility analysis for financial institutions, law and accounting firms, private and public agencies, pension and investment firms, and the general public. She also has testified as an expert witness in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Northern District of California and in the Assessment Appeals Boards of San Francisco, Alameda, and San Mateo counties.
Prior to joining BBG, Ms. van de Pol served as Director of Integra Realty Resources in San Francisco, where she led the firm's complex residential valuation team which worked on most subdivision, development land, apartment, condominium, and mixed use assignments, as well as personally performing and supervising assignments involving traditional commercial property types. Earlier, she worked for the IRR's Sacramento office and Morgan, Beebe and Harper in Sacramento, which IRR acquired in 2000.
BBG CEO Chris Roach commented, "Michelle's extensive industry expertise, a successful track record in meeting complex client demands, and proven leadership skills make her the perfect choice to play a key role in BBG's growth strategy in this major market."
Ms. van de Pol said, "I am delighted and honored to be given the opportunity to lead a team of talented professionals in providing the highest level of service for our clients and to continue building the significant momentum that BBG has in this region."
About BBG
BBG is a leading independent national commercial real-estate valuation, advisory and assessment firm headquartered in Dallas with more than 25 offices in key US markets. BBG has achieved a reputation for personal attention, on-time delivery and deep expertise in multi-family, office, retail and industrial sectors. For more information about BBG, please visit www.bbgres.com
Media Contact
Marc Weinstein
Ascent Communications
(908) 967-9958
marc.wein57@verizon.net
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bbg-promotes-michelle-van-de-pol-to-managing-director-of-san-francisco-and-sacramento-offices-300586402.html
SOURCE BBG