MILWAUKEE, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- HSA Bank, a division of Webster Bank, N.A., announced today the appointment of Ann Brisk as vice president, strategy development officer. Brisk will be responsible for cultivating HSA Bank's strategic ideas, and vetting its business development and product needs to identify and prioritize new opportunities. She will report to Kevin Robertson, HSA Bank's senior vice president, chief revenue officer.
With extensive business development and transactional experience, Brisk has been a principal architect of multiple growth initiatives for healthcare companies and financial institutions during her career that spans more than 20 years.
"As HSA Bank continues to expand our suite of solutions in 2018, Ann will be instrumental in assessing opportunities to communicate our value while leveraging the strengths of our core business," said Robertson. "She brings expertise in developing and executing new and innovative healthcare solutions, as well as a long and successful history of sourcing, evaluating, and completing strategic alliances."
Most recently, she worked as director of business development with the Council for Affordable Quality Healthcare (CAQH), a non-profit alliance of health plans and trade associations that focuses on transforming business processes in healthcare.
Prior to this, Brisk developed strategic partnerships and drove health plan sales as director of business development for Tango Health, Inc. She also served as vice president, healthcare transaction services, at OptumHealth Financial, where she generated growth through her management of the product team, and related strategy for core transaction and banking services. Brisk earned a bachelor's degree in marketing from the University of Colorado Boulder.
For more information about HSA Bank, visit www.hsabank.com .
About HSA Bank:
HSA Bank is a trusted leader in consumer-directed healthcare (CDH), focusing on Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) for over two decades and serving as both the bank and administrator. Discover how we can support your benefits strategy with our comprehensive account-based health benefit solutions that include HSAs, Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs), Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs), and Commuter Benefits. With a reputation for outstanding service and thought leadership in the CDH space, we offer one platform and one portal for all of our members. HSA Bank inspires over 2 million members and more than 35,000 employer groups to own their health by making it easy to access, understand, and afford healthcare. HSA Bank has $6 billion in assets under management with nearly $5 billion in HSA deposits and over $1 billion in investment assets, and is a division of Webster Bank, N.A., Member FDIC.
Media Contact:
Alice Ferreira
(203) 578-2610
acferreira@websterbank.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hsa-bank-appoints-ann-brisk-to-strategy-development-officer-300587133.html
SOURCE HSA Bank