The new Ring Beams product line features smart, easy to install security lights that communicate with all Ring devices to further extend the Ring of Security around the home
SANTA MONICA, Calif. & CLEVELAND--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ring , the leader in home security, today announced it acquired Mr. Beams , an innovative LED lighting technology company, in order to integrate smart, energy-efficient lights into more of its security devices and release new, standalone outdoor security lights, called Ring Beams. A company on a mission to reduce neighborhood crime, Ring offers affordable security products that include bright, motion-sensing lights to ward off potential intruders. Like all Ring products, Mr. Beams lights are affordable, incredibly easy to install anywhere around a home, and provide proactive security in the areas where it is needed most. This acquisition is another example of Ring’s commitment to providing the most comprehensive Ring of Security around homes and neighborhoods.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005574/en/
Ring Beams, including spotlights, pathway lights, and deck lights, will be available in mid-2018. (Photo: Business Wire)
Jamie Siminoff, Founder and Chief Inventor of Ring said: “David, Mike, and the whole Mr. Beams team have built a strong business and created a line of impressive technologies and patents around what we believe is the future of outdoor security lighting. This, coupled with our shared commitment to reducing crime in neighborhoods, makes Mr. Beams a perfect fit for Ring. The Mr. Beams team and the Ring family are already hard at work focusing on making neighborhoods safer.”
David Levine, CEO of Mr. Beams, said: “The Mr. Beams brand was built around improving home safety and security by providing bright, wireless, motion-activated lights that can be placed virtually anywhere. Over the past several years, we developed new technologies and a strong patent portfolio that will now serve as perfect complements to Ring’s security devices and cameras. We are pleased to join Ring’s team of very talented individuals committed to making neighborhoods safer.”
Mr. Beams will continue to operate as an independent division inside of Ring Inc.; Ring plans to utilize its new, unparalleled blend of technologies to continue releasing new products under both brands. Ring Beams, including spotlights, pathway lights, and deck lights, will be available in mid-2018.
Click here for images.
About Ring
Ring's mission is to reduce crime in neighborhoods by creating a Ring of Security around homes and communities with its suite of home security products. The Ring product line , along with the Ring Neighborhoods network, enable Ring to offer affordable, complete, proactive home and neighborhood security in a way no other company has before. In fact, one Los Angeles neighborhood saw a 55 percent decrease in home break-ins after Ring Doorbells were installed on just 10 percent of homes. For more information, visit www.ring.com . With Ring, you’re always home.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005574/en/
Media:
BIGfish Communications for Ring
Meredith Chiricosta, 202-609-7622
ring@bigfishpr.com
Source: Ring