0 COMMENTS Sign up: With one click, get this newsletter delivered to your inbox .
New Jersey lawmakers say the days of mob influence at the New York region’s seaports are long gone and it’s time to wind down federal anti-corruption oversight. Legislators are trying to pull the state out of the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, the 64-year-old bistate agency designed to combat the organized crime and racketeering that plague the docks . The WSJ’s Kate King and Paul Berger report they’re making the second effort in three years aimed at a commission that one lawmaker calls “an anachronism…a waste of money.” The commission still looks busy enough: it helped secure one conviction just three months ago, and helped prosecute former longshoremen linked to the Genovese crime family just three years ago. There are serious questions over whether the state can truly withdraw from a federally-created board. But lawmakers say they’re confident that Republican Gov. Chris Christie, who rejected an earlier plan, will sign the new measure before he leaves office this month.
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. BABA 0.67% chief Jack Ma’s U.S. expansion efforts are hitting some roadblocks. An American national-security panel rejected a bid by Alibaba affiliate Ant Financial Services Group to buy MoneyGram International Inc., the latest in a string of high-profile Chinese deals that have run into trouble with Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. The WSJ’s Peter Rudegeair and Kate O’Keeffe write it also marks a setback for Alibaba since Ant Financial operates Alipay, the payments service for China’s biggest e-commerce company. Dallas-based MoneyGram specializes in cross-border transfers of funds, and Ant Financial’s takeover bid highlights the significance of moving payments across borders—an action as important to international e-commerce as the ability to move goods from country to country. Alibaba and Ant Financial had made a big lobbying effort in Washington, and had pointed to Alibaba’s role in helping U.S. companies such as Hanesbrands Inc. sell to Chinese customers.
The push for cobalt to feed electric-car power is reaching into Canada. A handful of Canadian miners are looking at producing more of the crucial component in lithium-ion batteries, the WSJ’s David George-Cosh reports, betting they can build a bigger supply chain with a socially responsible source of the metal . That question over sourcing is a cloud over the auto-industry efforts to bulk up mass production of electric vehicles, which are powered by the batteries. Most cobalt currently comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo, where supply is threatened by political, legal and labor issues, leaving suppliers looking elsewhere for the mineral. Canada is the world’s third-biggest producer of cobalt, after the Congo and China, accounting for about 6% of the world’s supply, and new exploration by miners including Vale SA, Sherritt International Corp. and others could increase that share. The efforts have demand and basic economics on their side: the price of cobalt more than doubled over the past year.
TRANSPORTATION Port Newark in Elizabeth, N.J. Photo: Steve Remich for The Wall Street Journal Tesla Inc.’s sales of its new Model 3 sedans are stumbling while the company is still trying to fix its troubled supply chain. The Silicon Valley luxury electric-car company speeded up production in the fourth quarter of its vehicles aimed at the mass market, but Tesla still managed to push out only 793 of the cars in the last week of December . That’s far from the company’s earlier goals, the WSJ’s Tim Higgins reports, and it comes as Tesla fell far short of expectations with sales of just 1,550 of the Model 3s in the final three months of the year. And the company is wrestling with supply chain and production concerns on several fronts, and is adding new complications with its push for the Tesla Semi, the vehicle aimed at the heavy-duty trucking market. In the meantime, Tesla is depending on sales of its pricey cars to help keep the company alive while it develops more manufacturing muscle.
QUOTABLE
‘ The waterfront is one of the last places where organized crime is really very, very well entrenched. ’
—Robert Stewart, a former head of the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Task Force in Newark, N.J.
Number of the Day 2.9% Year-over-year increase in overall U.S. rail carloads in 2017, according to the Association of American Railroads.
IN OTHER NEWS U.S. factory activity accelerated in December and a measure of new orders reached the highest level in 14 years. (WSJ)
China’s central bank guided the yuan to its highest level against the U.S. dollar in more than a year and a half. (WSJ)
A measure of business conditions in the New York area fell in the final month of 2017 . (WSJ)
U.S. car companies collectively reported lower sales in December, signaling the first annual sales decline in the U.S. in eight years. (WSJ)
Brazilian state-run oil company Petrobas will pay $2.95 billion to end a suit by U.S. investors seeking to recoup corruption-related losses . (WSJ)
U.K. officials have held informal talks aimed at joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade group once the Brexit process is completed . (Financial Times)
Amazon.com Inc. says it shipped more than 5 billion items through its Prime membership service last year . (TechCrunch)
Growth in cargo shipping fleets world-wide will accelerate to 4.1% expansion per year over the next five years . (Lloyd’s List)
Container ship orders by capacity rose 140% in 2017 over the year before . (Shipping Watch)
South Korea’s Hyundai Merchant Marine Ltd. plans to double its container shipping fleet and add dry-bulk vessels to its operations. (Splash 24/7)
Marks & Spencer Group PLC is selling its Hong Kong and Macau stores as the British retailer pulls back from overseas markets . (The Guardian)
Navistar International Corp. Chief Executive Troy Clarke says the company will sell more electric trucks by 2025 than Tesla Inc. (Trucks.com)
Rail equipment manufacturer American Railcar Industries terminated president and chief executive Jeffrey Hollister and named John O’Bryan as interim CEO . (St. Louis Post-Dispatch)
Kenya Railways launched freight rail service between Nairobi and the Port of Mombasa. (Standard Digital)
ABOUT US Paul Page is deputy editor of WSJ Logistics Report. Follow him at @PaulPage , and follow the entire WSJ Logistics Report team: @brianjbaskin , @jensmithWSJ and @EEPhillips_WSJ . Follow the WSJ Logistics Report on Twitter at @WSJLogistics .
Write to Paul Page at paul.page@wsj.com