DRESHER, Pa., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ascensus , a technology-enabled service provider that helps more than 7 million Americans save for the future, has entered into an agreement to acquire Qualified Plans LLC ("Qualified Plans"). The third-party administration (TPA) firm will immediately become part of Ascensus TPA Solutions .
Headquartered in Savannah, Georgia, Qualified Plans provides plan design, consultation, compliance, and administration services for defined contribution and defined benefit plans. The firm's relationship managers, who average over 20 years of industry experience, oversee every aspect of the retirement planning operation to ensure that plans are as efficient and effective as possible.
"Acquiring Qualified Plans to become part of our TPA Solutions business is another indication of Ascensus' ongoing commitment to providing high-quality solutions to advisors through a platform-independent, open-architecture business model," states David Musto, Ascensus' president. "Qualified Plans' dedication to outstanding client service makes them a solid addition to Ascensus—we welcome their associates and their expertise in delivering efficient and high-quality plan retirement plans along with administration and actuarial services to our family."
"At Qualified Plans, we strive to create the perfect plan to fit the needs of our clients," says John Massey, managing partner for Qualified Plans. "We look forward to continuing to offer our professional expertise and partnership as part of the Ascensus family so that we may assist clients in achieving the long-term results they deserve."
"The southeastern U.S. is an important market for us, and we are delighted to acquire a well-regarded firm like Qualified Plans," says Raghav Nandagopal, Ascensus' executive vice president of corporate development and M&A. "Their long track record of providing personalized services on a national scale fits very well with Ascensus' TPA Solutions strategy. Qualified Plans is one of several additions we will make to our national footprint and capability set in 2018; we see many attractive opportunities ahead."
About Ascensus
Ascensus helps more than 7 million Americans save for the future—retirement, college, and healthcare—through technology-enabled solutions. With more than 35 years of experience, the firm offers tailored solutions that meet the needs of asset managers, banks, credit unions, state governments, financial professionals, employers, and individuals. Ascensus supports approximately 50,000 retirement plans, more than 4 million 529 college savings accounts, and a growing number of ABLE savings accounts. It also administers more than 1.7 million IRAs and health savings accounts. As of September 30, 2017, Ascensus had over $158 billion in total assets under administration. For more information about Ascensus, visit ascensus.com . For more information about Ascensus TPA Solutions, visit tpa.ascensus.com .
View career opportunities at careers.ascensus.com/page/show/tpa and careers.ascensus.com or on LinkedIn at linkedin.com/company/ascensus . For the latest company news, follow @AscensusInc on Twitter.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ascensus-continues-to-add-to-defined-contribution-and-defined-benefit-expertise-with-agreement-to-acquire-qualified-plans-llc-300588375.html
SOURCE Ascensus