MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. Elementum — the supply chain management company behind the world's first Product Availability platform — adds Frank Slootman as a board member and strategic advisor. Elementum is solving one of the most pressing problems in business today: getting the right products to the right place, at the right time. Slootman's experience in scaling cloud-based companies into industry SaaS leaders and his clarity into far-reaching industry problems make him uniquely valuable to Elementum's vision: empowering companies to turbo-charge their supply chains.
"We live in a 'I want it now' economy. Customer expectations have dramatically moved upscale to same day or overnight delivery. To stay competitive, companies must completely optimize their supply chains so they can deliver whenever and wherever customers need products. This is incredibly challenging, and Elementum is enabling it," says Frank Slootman.
Having held executive positions at Data Domain, EMC, and ServiceNow, the fastest growing $1B+ enterprise software company in history, Slootman's track record is one of transformation and hyper growth.
"I am thrilled that Frank Slootman, a game-changing strategist and visionary in SaaS, is joining our team. His commitment validates our mission and will help us achieve it," says Nader Mikhail, CEO and Founder at Elementum. "Elementum will completely transform how enterprises manage their supply chains."
Slootman's experience in enterprise SaaS solutions is hugely relevant as Elementum builds a globally connected Product Graph to unlock the trillions of dollars trapped in today's disconnected and slow moving supply chains. Because of this, companies cannot react to fluctuating demand and highly speculative forecasts. Elementum's platform unifies industry data with internal workflows to shed light on the flow of goods around the world and enable companies to meet increasing customer expectations. These days, the difference between companies that win and companies that fail is the ability to get customers what they want, where and when they want it.
About Elementum:
In today's world, instant gratification trumps brand loyalty. Companies must transform their fragmented operations and deliver at the speed of demand before they lose their customers to competitors who can. Elementum is building the world's Product Availability Platform. By digitally mapping the $25T product economy, Elementum's platform connects the world's supply chains, sheds light on the flow of goods around the world, and ensures that products are available at the right time, place, quantity, and cost.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/frank-slootman-joins-elementum-board-of-directors-300579454.html
SOURCE Elementum