DALLAS, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- MoneyGram (NASDAQ: MGI), today announced that Grant Lines has been promoted to Global Chief Revenue Officer. The company also announced that Kamila Chytil, Chief Global Operations Officer, has expanded her role and responsibilities to include Information Technology along with Product Management and Sales Delivery. Both executive appointments continue to report into Alex Holmes, Chief Executive Officer of MoneyGram, and both are effective immediately.
"I am excited about both Grant and Kamila's appointments. Grant is a dynamic leader whose strategic thinking and hands-on approach has been key to our growth, particularly outside of the U.S. One revenue leader will allow us to simplify and flatten our organization while centralizing our revenue decisions," said Alex Holmes, Chief Executive Officer of MoneyGram. "Since joining our company, Kamila has been instrumental in driving efficiencies and helping to transform MoneyGram's operations. I look forward to all she will bring in her expanded role from an IT, operational, and product standpoint, while executing on our corporate strategies."
Grant Lines is a payments industry veteran with more than 25 years of global experience in various leadership roles. Lines joined MoneyGram in 2013 and has been instrumental in accelerating the company's international revenue and profit growth across Africa, Middle East, Asia Pacific, Russia & CIS.
Kamila Chytil joined MoneyGram in May 2015 as senior vice president of key partnerships and payments and was named Chief Global Operations Officer in May 2016. In 2017, Kamila was named as one of the 25 most influential women in the payments industry. Before joining MoneyGram, Chytil spent 11 years at FIS, the world's largest provider of core processing, card issuer and transaction processing services to financial institutions and businesses worldwide.
About MoneyGram
MoneyGram is a global provider of innovative money transfer and payment services and is recognized worldwide as a financial connection to friends and family. Whether online, or through a mobile device, at a kiosk or in a local store, we connect consumers any way that is convenient for them. We also provide bill payment services, issue money orders and process official checks in select markets. More information about MoneyGram International, Inc. is available at moneygram.com.
MoneyGram Media Contact:
Michelle Buckalew
Mbuckalew@moneygram.com
214-979-1418
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which may include projections of future results of operations, financial condition or business prospects. Actual results of operations, financial condition or business prospects may differ from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to market demand, global economic conditions, adverse industry conditions, legal proceedings, the ability to effectively identify and enter into new markets, governmental regulation, the ability to retain management and other personnel, and other economic, business or competitive factors. Additional information concerning factors that could cause results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in MoneyGram's SEC filings. The forward-looking statements in this release reflect the current belief of MoneyGram as of the date of this release. MoneyGram undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements for events or circumstances that occur subsequent to such date.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/moneygram-announces-executive-appointments-300588191.html
SOURCE MoneyGram