SANTA CLARA, Calif., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Hitachi Vantara , a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd. (TSE:6501), today announced it will be opening a state-of-the-art headquarters in Santa Clara, set to welcome employees, customers and partners to its new campus in the Spring of 2019. The new campus is another step in Hitachi Vantara’s cohesive strategy and unrelenting focus to inspire employees, attract top talent and help customers achieve outcomes that positively drive business and society forward.
All Santa Clara-based employees and contractors will relocate to the new location at 2535 Augustine Drive in Santa Clara Square, approximately two miles from Hitachi Vantara’s current headquarters. The new sleek and modern space is designed to encourage intelligent innovation and collaboration in a number of different environments. On-site amenities will include a cutting-edge Executive Briefing Center and lab facilities, a gym, two cafes, open-air gathering places and casual workspaces, and it is walking distance to many restaurants and retail stores.
“Hitachi Vantara’s culture is second to none. We want to give our employees a workplace that reflects that culture, builds on our new brand, enhances our recruitment efforts and inspires innovation,” said Brian Householder, president and chief operations officer, Hitachi Vantara. “Our new campus at Santa Clara Square will offer our employees just that. With these incredible new workspaces, we expect this move will assist us in reaching our goals even faster.”
“We are thrilled to add another world-class company like Hitachi Vantara to our workplace community, and we are honored they chose us as the place where they want to grow and enhance their brand and culture,” said Todd Hedrick, regional vice president, Irvine Company Office Properties. “It’s exciting to see how leading Silicon Valley companies are embracing our vision to bring best-in-class office, retail and rental living together, to simplify and enhance the lives of their employees.”
About Hitachi Vantara
Hitachi Vantara, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd., helps data-driven leaders find and use the value in their data to innovate intelligently and reach outcomes that matter for business and society. We combine technology, intellectual property and industry knowledge to deliver data-managing solutions that help enterprises improve their customers’ experiences, develop new revenue streams, and lower the costs of business. Only Hitachi Vantara elevates your innovation advantage by combining deep information technology (IT), operational technology (OT) and domain expertise. We work with organizations everywhere to drive data to meaningful outcomes. Visit us at www.HitachiVantara.com .
Connect With Hitachi Vantara
Twitter LinkedIn Facebook
About Hitachi, Ltd.
Hitachi, Ltd. (TSE:6501), headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, delivers innovations that answer society’s challenges. The company’s consolidated revenues for fiscal 2016 (ended March 31, 2017) totaled 9,162.2 billion yen ($81.8 billion). The Hitachi Group is a global leader in Social Innovation and has approximately 304,000 employees worldwide. Through collaborative creation, Hitachi is providing solutions to customers in a broad range of sectors, including Power / Energy, Industry / Distribution / Water, Urban Development, and Finance / Government & Public / Healthcare. For more information, please visit http://www.hitachi.com .
HITACHI is a trademark or registered trademark of Hitachi, Ltd. All other trademarks, service marks, and company names are properties of their respective owners.
COMPANY CONTACT
Stefani Finch
Hitachi Vantara
Stefani.Finch@HitachiVantara.com
408 499 7349
Source: Hitachi Vantara