BOCA RATON, Fla., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cendyn, the leading provider of hotel CRM and hotel sales platforms in the hospitality industry, announced today that Chief Sales and Marketing Officer Tim Sullivan has been honored with the Top 25 Extraordinary Minds accolade by the Hospitality Sales & Marketing Association International.
The HSMAI Top 25 Minds award recognizes leaders in sales, marketing and revenue optimization within the travel and hospitality industry who stand out through their creativity and innovation, cutting-edge campaigns, triumphs in challenging situations and efforts that resulted in dramatic gains.
"Tim has been instrumental to our success at Cendyn," said Charles Deyo, President and CEO at Cendyn. "Cendyn has grown revenue by over 30 percent in the last 24 months, shepherding in a fresh and exciting era of acceleration. We are grateful for his accomplishments and proud to see him recognized with this prestigious award."
As the Chief Sales and Marketing Officer of Cendyn, Tim Sullivan oversees global sales, business development, marketing, and client success. Previously President of Cendyn/ONE, where he brought an integrated hotel CRM and digital marketing platform to market, he is now responsible for Cendyn's global expansion and strategy for the Cendyn Hospitality Cloud.
During his eight years with the company, Tim played a key role in helping transform Cendyn into a cloud-based software and services company that is revolutionizing the hospitality industry. Throughout 2017, Tim helped bring in a vast number of integrations and partners, establishing the Cendyn Hospitality Cloud as the most integrated and connected in the industry.
He is an HSMAI member, former HSMAI digital advisory council member and Cendyn board member.
Tim will be honored with the Top 25 Extraordinary Minds award at a reception and gala during the HSMAI Adrian Awards in February 2018 at the New York Marriot Marquis.
About Cendyn
Cendyn is a cloud-based software and services provider that develops integrated technology platforms for driving sales and marketing performance in the travel and hospitality industry. The Cendyn Hospitality Cloud offers the most complete set of innovative software and services in the industry, covering hotel marketing, guest engagement, group sales, and event management. With offices in Boca Raton, Atlanta, Boston, San Diego, Toronto, Whistler, London, Munich and Singapore, Cendyn proudly serves more than 30,000 clients in 143 countries with enterprise spend levels in excess of $1 billion. For more information on Cendyn, visit www.cendyn.com .
Media Contact
Michael Bennett
SVP, Global Marketing
mbennett@cendyn.com
561-419-2286
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cendyn-chief-sales--marketing-officer-tim-sullivan-named-one-of-top-25-extraordinary-minds-by-hsmai-300576696.html
SOURCE Cendyn