WALL, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- New Jersey Resources (NYSE:NJR) invites investors, customers, members of the financial community and other interested parties to listen to a live webcast of its first-quarter fiscal 2018 earnings results on Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 10 a.m. EST. Chairman and CEO Laurence M. Downes, Chief Operating Officer Stephen D. Westhoven and Chief Financial Officer Patrick J. Migliaccio, will present an overview of NJR’s financial performance and discuss how the recently passed tax reform legislation will impact the company.
A few minutes prior to the webcast, go to njresources.com and select “Investor Relations.” Scroll down and click “Investor Information” on the left side of the page, then select “Events & Presentations” and click on the webcast link.
About New Jersey Resources
New Jersey Resources (NYSE: NJR) is a Fortune 1000 company that, through its subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable natural gas and clean energy services, including transportation, distribution, asset management and home services. NJR is composed of five primary businesses:
New Jersey Natural Gas, NJR’s principal subsidiary, operates and maintains over 7,700 miles of natural gas transportation and distribution infrastructure to serve over half a million customers in New Jersey’s Monmouth, Ocean and parts of Morris, Middlesex and Burlington counties. NJR Clean Energy Ventures invests in, owns and operates solar and onshore wind projects with a total capacity of more than 315 megawatts, providing residential and commercial customers with low-carbon solutions. NJR Energy Services manages a diversified portfolio of natural gas transportation and storage assets and provides physical natural gas services and customized energy solutions to its customers across North America. NJR Midstream serves customers from local distributors and producers to electric generators and wholesale marketers through its 50 percent equity ownership in the Steckman Ridge natural gas storage facility and its stake in Dominion Midstream Partners, L.P., as well as its 20 percent equity interest in the PennEast Pipeline Project. NJR Home Services provides service contracts as well as heating, central air conditioning, water heaters, standby generators, solar and other indoor and outdoor comfort products to residential homes throughout New Jersey.
NJR and its more than 1,000 employees are committed to helping customers save energy and money by promoting conservation and encouraging efficiency through Conserve to Preserve ® and initiatives such as The SAVEGREEN Project ® and The Sunlight Advantage ® .
For more information about NJR:
Visit www.njresources.com .
Follow us on Twitter @NJNaturalGas.
“Like” us on facebook.com/NewJerseyNaturalGas .
Download our free NJR investor relations app for iPad, iPhone and Android.
NJR-E
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111006134/en/
New Jersey Resources
Media:
Michael Kinney, 732-938-1031
mkinney@njresources.com
or
Investors:
Dennis Puma, 732-938-1229
dpuma@njresources.com
Source: New Jersey Resources