MEQUON, Wis., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Activist investor Global Value Investment Corp. (GVIC) has sent an open letter to the StealthGas Inc. (NasdaqGS: GASS) Board of Directors pressing for reforms due to persistent underperformance of the company's common stock. This letter and an accompanying investor presentation can be viewed by visiting GVIC's website: https://www.gvi-corp.com/category/holdings-news/ .
GVIC urged the board to immediately initiate a cash dividend, hire a permanent CFO, retain an independent investor relations firm and establish criteria to hold the current entrenched management team accountable for the company's poor performance.
"GASS trades for approximately 25% of its book value of about $14.00 per share," according to GVIC analyst Mr. Samuel Schaefer. "This management team has failed to create value for shareholders, with the company's net worth declining over the past five years." GVIC has invested in the company's common stock for its clients since 2007 and currently holds less than 5% of the common stock outstanding.
GVIC President and CEO, Mr. Jeffrey Geygan, stated that his firm will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that the interests of shareholders are served. "We have patiently communicated with the company for several years with little noticeable change." Geygan believes that most investors share his frustration and support GVIC's recommended changes. He indicated there are numerous options available to GVIC, up to and including a proxy contest to replace current directors.
About Global Value Investment Corp.
Global Value Investment Corp. is a value-oriented investment research and advisory firm focused on investing in the equity and debt of publicly traded companies around the world. The firm was founded in 2007 in Mequon, WI, and has since opened additional offices in Boston, MA, Charleston, SC and Hyderabad, India. GVIC is a FINRA member firm.
About StealthGas Inc.
StealthGas Inc. is a maritime transportation company primarily serving the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) sector, and is one of the largest owners of pressurized LPG carriers in the 3,000 – 8,000 cbm costal carrier segment. The company has been publicly listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange since 2005, and is headquartered in Kifisia, Greece.
For Further Information Contact:
Ms. Stacy Wilke
Global Value Investment Corp.
262-478-0640
Info@gvi-corp.com
www.gvi-corp.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-value-investment-corp-issues-letter-to-stealthgas-inc-chairman-300584230.html
SOURCE Global Value Investment Corp.