PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Jama Software, a leading product-development platform for companies building complex products and integrated systems, today announced it has acquired Notion. Notion is a software-as-a-service analytics provider with reporting and business intelligence dashboards for metrics-focused product teams. The acquisition, which closed this week, will accelerate Jama's roadmap to deliver strategic insights from the product development process to customers.
Developing smart, connected products is becoming increasingly complex. Innovative companies need better access to data across their product development ecosystem to maintain a competitive advantage in this era of digital transformation. With Notion, Jama's product suite will now include cutting-edge analytics that empower customers to collect, track and act on performance data from multiple sources.
"Notion's team and technology are second-to-none when it comes to turning data into actionable insights that help product development teams improve their performance," said Jama CEO Scott Roth. "We are excited to offer customers an unprecedented level of strategic insights to make their product development process more predictive. Acquiring Notion enables us to do just that – by combining Jama's expertise in product development best practices, the expansive data and processes that our customers are managing with Jama's software platform, and Notion's leading edge analytical capabilities."
Notion's current product offers out-of-the box integration with the leading tools modern product development teams use, such as Jira, GitHub, Slack and Pivotal Tracker. Going forward, Jama will integrate its data – as well as data from other popular product lifecycle management, application lifecycle management and customer service sources – into Notion's cloud analytics platform and offer it as a part of Jama's overall product-development platform.
"By combining forces, we will be able to bring best-in-class analytics solutions to product development teams everywhere," said Notion co-founder Dave Shanley. "We are thrilled to join Jama and become part of such an innovative company and team."
Notion was founded in 2015 in Portland, Oregon by Dave Shanley and Kevin Steigerwald. Shanley will report directly to Roth, with Notion's entire team joining Jama. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
The news of the acquisition of Notion comes on the heels of announcing significant year-over-year growth in Jama's business – with over 150 new and expansion customer wins and a 73 percent increase in new license bookings.
About Jama Software
Jama Software is the product development platform for companies building complex, smart and connected products. The Jama solution enables enterprises to accelerate development time, mitigate risk, slash complexity and verify regulatory compliance. More than 600 product-centric organizations, including NASA, Thales and Caterpillar, use Jama Software to modernize their process for bringing complex products to market. The company is headquartered in Portland, Ore. , visit www.jamasoftware.com .
About Notion
Founded in 2015, Notion is a software-as-a-service analytics provider based in Portland, Oregon. Notion is the analytics layer for product-focused teams — offering an innovative, cloud-based SaaS platform to collect and track performance metrics together in one place. Notion is characterized by simple plug-and-play integrations with the SaaS tools product teams use every day for instant reporting with customizable dashboards, best practice KPI recipes, and recommended cross-team insights.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/product-development-platform-leader-jama-software-acquires-notion-300582939.html
SOURCE Jama Software