CHICAGO, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- RSM US LLP ("RSM"), the nation's leading provider of audit, tax and consulting services focused on the middle market, announced today that the leaders and staff of SecureState, a national security and privacy consulting firm located in Cleveland, Ohio, will be joining RSM. The firms have signed a definitive agreement for RSM to acquire substantially all the assets of SecureState, and the transaction is expected to close on March 1, 2018 subject to certain terms and conditions.
This transaction expands RSM's consulting practice and its growing presence in the Ohio market by adding more than 50 talented individuals to the team. It also enhances the firm's growing security and privacy practice through SecureState's deep knowledge and expertise in information security – from compliance and risk awareness to incidents and breaches, as well as its state-of-the-art incident response lab. Ken Stasiak, founder and CEO of SecureState, will join RSM as a consulting principal, and his full team will transition to RSM upon closing.
"Cybersecurity is cited by middle market business leaders as one of the foremost risks to their business," said Brian Becker, national consulting leader for RSM US LLP. "We have been experiencing tremendous growth in our security and privacy services due to clients' needs in this area. We are thrilled to enhance our ability to help existing clients and other middle market businesses address their cybersecurity concerns by joining forces with SecureState. This is yet another example of RSM's commitment to being at the forefront of the evolving needs of middle market businesses."
RSM and SecureState share a client-centric approach to doing business, with a focus on building enduring, trusted relationships. Both firms offer superior service to clients in the middle market.
"We are thrilled to be joining RSM," said Stasiak. "Our expertise and service offerings represent a perfect fit for RSM's growing security and privacy practice. We are excited to join the foremost provider of consulting services to middle market leaders, and we look forward to continuing to serve our client base while at the same time helping RSM's many clients achieve stronger levels of security within their businesses."
"Consulting has been an area of rapid growth for RSM during the last several years," said Joe Adams, managing partner and CEO of RSM US LLP. "I am constantly impressed by the team's ability to innovate and stay ahead of the changing needs of our clients. We are particularly pleased to expand our ability to provide security and privacy consulting solutions, and we look forward to the knowledge and expertise the SecureState team will bring to our firm. This is another important step toward strengthening our position as the first-choice advisor to middle market leaders—globally."
The team from SecureState will continue to be located in their existing offices at 23340 Miles Road in Cleveland, after completion of the transaction.
About SecureState
Since 2001, SecureState has been a leader in providing organizations with management consulting services focused in the Information Security field. SecureState develops solutions to organizations' most complex business problems to reduce their level of acceptable risk. SecureState partners with each client to develop roadmaps consisting of both strategic and tactical recommendations that will bring them to a secure state.
About RSM US LLP
RSM's purpose is to deliver the power of being understood to our clients, colleagues and communities through world-class audit, tax and consulting services focused on middle market businesses. The clients we serve are the engine of global commerce and economic growth, and we are focused on developing leading professionals and services to meet their evolving needs in today's ever-changing business environment.
RSM US LLP is the U.S. member firm of RSM International, a global network of independent, audit, tax and consulting firms with more than 43,000 people in over 120 countries. For more information, visit rsmus.com , like us on Facebook , follow us on Twitter , subscribe on YouTube and/or connect with us on LinkedIn .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rsm-expands-consulting-services-by-joining-forces-with-securestate-300590733.html
SOURCE RSM US LLP