CHICAGO, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Opternative, Inc. today announced that Brent Rasmussen has joined the company as Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors. Rasmussen recently served as CEO at Halo Group and previously was COO and President, North America, at CareerBuilder. As Opternative's CEO, Rasmussen will be responsible for furthering the company's mission of being the ubiquitous leader in optical telehealth by partnering with eyewear companies and retailers to provide safe and affordable online vision tests for people worldwide.
"Brent has incredible experience and has achieved great success with technology companies. His proven track record of execution and his ability to lead by example are welcomed additions to our team," said Dr. Steven Lee, OD, Founder and Chief Science Officer of Opternative. "I'm also grateful to Pete Carroll, Operating Partner from Jump Capital, for his invaluable leadership and guidance as Interim CEO driving us forward throughout 2017." Jump Capital Managing Director Sach Chitnis said, "As a Board, we could not be more excited to have Brent lead Opternative's strong executive team as the company continues to expand and meet the needs of its partners and customer base."
"I am thrilled to join Opternative and look forward to working with the company's talented employees and its value-driving partners to continue the company's high growth trajectory," said Rasmussen. "The work we do going forward in satisfying the universal need for accessibility and affordability within eye care is paramount. I'm eager to take on the challenge ahead and help accelerate their strong growth."
About Opternative
Opternative Inc., a Chicago-based healthcare technology company, founded in 2012, has launched the first online refractive eye test that delivers a physician-issued prescription for glasses or contact lenses. The test is interactive and follows the same subjective principles applied in an eye care professional's office where patients are asked to respond to a series of questions based on images presented to them. The software uses a series of vision tests, algorithms and patient medical history to provide ophthalmologists with a clinical decision support tool that enables them to diagnose patients with nearsightedness, farsightedness, astigmatism, emmetropia and to prescribe glasses or contacts when appropriate. With a mission to help the world see and feel better, the Opternative eye test will make vision screening and prescription services accessible and affordable to everyone.
Media Contact:
Pete Horkan, External Affairs
Email: Pete@Opternative.com
Phone: 773.459.8859
Related Images
image1.jpg
Brent Rasmussen
image2.png
Opternative Logo
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/opternative-names-former-careerbuilder-president-as-ceo-300577072.html
SOURCE Opternative, Inc.