Partnership Offers Highest Level of Services and Resources to Clients
CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- MicroD LLC, a technology leader in the home furnishings Industry, today announced the acquisition of award-winning web design and digital marketing agency, Web Full Circle.
Web Full Circle has received numerous awards for work in content marketing, search engine optimization, digital marketing and conversion rate optimization. Among the awards: The 2017 Landy Finalist - Best Overall Search Initiative; Crowdreviews.com #1 Digital Marketing, SEO, Social Media, Content Marketing; TopSEO's #8 SEO; and Top SEO Companies 2017 by Clutch; 10seos.com .
Web Full Circle also brings an impressive list of clients, including department store chain Belk; mattress manufacturer Comfortaire; the largest privately-held homebuilder, David Weekley Homes; and nationally recognized franchises Benjamin Franklin Plumbing and One Hour Heating and Air Conditioning. It also earned its Google and Microsoft Partner certifications.
“MicroD is committed to investing in companies and technologies that make our clients successful online. As part of our ongoing efforts to innovate and continue to provide the best technology in the industry, we introduced our 3D solutions for product presentation and launched a digital marketing program for web traffic engagement. The addition of Web Full Circle to MicroD furthers our efforts toward the same goals,” said Manoj Nigam, CEO and chairman of MicroD.
“We are extremely excited to welcome the award-winning digital marketing team of Web Full Circle to the MicroD family. Our digital marketing business continues to increase, and the combined resources of these two companies will give us further talent, expertise and capacity to grow in this market,” said Richard Sexton, Chief product officer at MicroD.
“At Web Full Circle, our team looks to transform the consumer experience across all touchpoints, build customer loyalty and fuel the revenue growth of our clients. We understand the various challenges associated with designing and managing a digital marketing strategy for both large and small businesses,” said Josh Astete, CEO of Web Full Circle. “We are focused on performance and delivering measurable results that bring success to our clients. We admire how MicroD strives to do the same.”
“Our shared perspectives, talented teams and interest in the home furnishings industry make the Web Full Circle and MicroD a perfect match,” added Astete.
For more information, visit www.MicroDinc.com or www.webfullcircle.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005748/en/
MicroD LLC
Emily Stalvey, 704-927-3190
emilystalvey@microdinc.com
Source: MicroD LLC