ALEXANDRIA, Va., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Board of Directors of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, a nonprofit 501 ©(3) organization dedicated to finding missing children and reducing child sexual exploitation, has announced the election of its Chair and Chair-elect for 2018-2019.
The Board Chair is Richard Kolodziej. Mr. Kolodziej has served on NCMEC's Board of Directors since 1989. He was elected Vice-Chair in 2011, and has chaired several of NCMEC's Board committees. A 30-year veteran of the U.S. natural gas industry, he is president of Zenergy Advisors, an alternative vehicle fuel consultancy. Prior to his current position, Mr. Kolodziej was president of NGVAmerica and Group Vice President of the American Gas Association. In addition to serving on NCMEC's Board of Directors, Mr. Kolodziej serves on the boards of NGAdvantage, a virtual natural gas pipeline company, and the National Energy Foundation, a national non-profit energy education organization. He also is past chair of NGV Global.
Karen Tandy will begin her new role as the Board of Director's Chair-Elect after serving on the board for 6 years. Currently, Ms. Tandy devotes her time and knowledge as the Founder and Principal Consultant at KPT Consulting LLC. In addition, Ms. Tandy continues to lend her knowledge and expertise as a member of many law enforcement related boards including the Homeland Security Advisory Council, the National Law Enforcement Museum Leadership Council and several international boards. In 2003, after she was nominated by President George W. Bush, Ms. Tandy was named the first female head of the Drug Enforcement Administration until she retired in 2007. Following her successful career with the DEA, Ms. Tandy took a position with Motorola as the senior vice president of Public Affairs and Communication.
"NCMEC is honored to have Richard Kolodziej and Karen Tandy serve on our board of directors in their new roles," says John Clark, the President of NCMEC. "During their years on the Board, they have made significant contributions to furthering the organization and its goals. I look forward to working with them as they take on their new roles."
To learn more about NCMEC and to see a complete list of board members and officers please visit www.missingkids.org/footer/aboutus .
About the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children
Since 1984, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children® has served as the leading private, nonprofit organization helping to find missing children, reduce child sexual exploitation and prevent future victimization. As part of its work as the clearinghouse and resource center on issues relating to missing and exploited children, NCMEC operates a hotline, 1-800-THE-LOST® (1-800-843-5678), and has assisted in the recovery of more than 250,000 missing children. NCMEC also operates the CyberTipline®, a mechanism for reporting suspected child sexual exploitation, which has received more than 21.5 million reports since it was created in 1998. To learn more about NCMEC, visit www.missingkids.org or visit NCMEC (@MissingKids) on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-national-center-for-missing--exploited-children-announces-20182019-board-chair-and-chair-elect-300583961.html
SOURCE The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children