HAILEY, Idaho, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- POWER Engineers Incorporated (POWER) is now better positioned to provide environmental consulting services to clients throughout the US, thanks to its acquisition of Austin-based Zephyr Environmental Corporation.
“Adding Zephyr’s team and their experience is key for our environmental business,” said Bret Moffett, POWER’s CEO. “Our combined teams will significantly elevate our environmental practice, providing expanded services for clients as well as exciting opportunities for our employees to work on fun and challenging projects.”
Zephyr is a 75-person firm with Texas offices in Austin, San Antonio and Houston, as well as offices in York, Pennsylvania and Baltimore, Maryland. Zephyr’s existing clients will be able to work with the same teams they know and trust while enjoying the additional service offerings and resources provided by POWER’s 2,400-person staff.
Zephyr’s experts will help POWER offer more robust environmental consulting services to an expanded client base. Both POWER and Zephyr have a history of success in the electric utility, oil and gas, refinery, and food processing industries. The combined team will be able to better serve the needs of existing environmental clients while offering additional services to clients in other sectors.
“Since our founding in 1994, Zephyr has taken great pride in putting our clients first,” said Maria Gou, Zephyr’s former CEO. “We’re excited to be part of a company that shares that same commitment to client-focused, quality consulting work.”
Gou will become POWER’s Air Quality and Related Environmental Services Business Unit Director.
The five acquired offices will retain the “Zephyr” name until May 2018. EFCG, an investment banking and financial consulting firm for the architecture, engineering consulting and construction industry, initiated this transaction and served as POWER’s financial advisor.
About POWER Engineers: POWER Engineers is a global consulting engineering firm specializing in the delivery of integrated solutions for energy, food and beverage facilities, communications, environmental, and federal markets. POWER Engineers offers complete multidiscipline engineering and program management services. Founded in 1976, it is an employee-owned company with more than 2,400 employees and over 40 offices throughout the United States and abroad.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6b291002-a851-41ca-b4f5-ec30c2ab75a2
Janet Metzger POWER Engineers (208) 288-6132 janet.metzger@powereng.com
Source: POWER Engineers