SAN DIEGO, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Mitek (NASDAQ:MITK) ( www.miteksystems.com ), a global leader in mobile capture and identity verification software solutions, today announced that it will release its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, ended December 31, 2017, on Thursday, January 25, 2018, after the close of the market.
Mitek management will host a conference call and live webcast for analysts and investors on January 25, 2018 at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Time) to discuss the Company's financial results.
To access the live call, dial 800-239-9838 (US and Canada) or 323-794-2551 (International) and give the participant passcode 2115565.
A live and archived webcast of the conference call will be accessible on the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website at www.miteksystems.com . In addition, a phone replay will be available approximately two hours following the end of the call and remain available for one week. To access the call replay dial-in information, please click here .
About Mitek
Mitek (NASDAQ:MITK) is a global leader in mobile capture and identity verification software solutions built on the latest advancements in AI and machine learning. Mitek’s identity verification solutions allow an enterprise to verify a user’s identity during a digital transaction. This enables financial institutions, payments companies and other businesses operating in highly regulated markets to mitigate financial risk and meet regulatory requirements while increasing revenue from digital channels. Mitek also reduces the friction in the users’ experience with advanced data prefill and automation of the onboarding processes. Mitek’s innovative solutions are embedded into the apps of more than 5,900 organizations and used by more than 80 million consumers. For more information, visit www.miteksystems.com or www.miteksystems.co.uk . (MITK-F)
Follow Mitek on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/mitek-systems-inc-
Follow Mitek on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/miteksystems
Connect with Mitek on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/MitekSystems
See Mitek on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/miteksystems
Read Mitek’s latest blog post: http://www.miteksystems.com/blog
Investor Contact:
Todd Kehrli or Jim Byers
MKR Group, Inc.
mitk@mkr-group.com
Source:Mitek Systems, Inc.