DES PLAINES, Ill., Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Emergency Nurses Association (ENA) today announced the ENA Board of Directors doubled the association's annual gift to the ENA Foundation's General Endowment Fund by donating $50,000 to support academic scholarships for emergency nurses.
The General Endowment Fund, the Foundation's largest, supports the mission of the ENA Foundation to provide academic scholarships and research grants. Over the Foundation's history, the greatest need has been funding for academic scholarships, and majority of the money it raises supports emergency nurses seeking to further their education.
ENA is committed to the Foundation and furthering the profession of emergency nursing through annual gifts. In recent years, ENA has donated $25,000, but increased its contribution by 100 percent to help the Foundation prepare for the future.
"ENA is an organization that provides so many wonderful resources for emergency nurses and promotes pushing the profession forward," said ENA president Jeff Solheim, MSN, RN, CEN, TCRN, CFRN, FAEN, FAAN. "We thought this was one of the best ways to show our commitment to, not only the Foundation, but to our members. We hope this gift can help many emergency nurses in their journey toward furthering their education and the profession."
The call for academic scholarships opens March 1. The Foundation awards academic scholarships to emergency nurses pursuing BSN, MS, MSN, MBA, PhD, DNP and EdD degrees.
About the Emergency Nurses Association
The Emergency Nurses Association (ENA) is the premier professional nursing association dedicated to defining the future of emergency nursing through advocacy, education, research, innovation, and leadership. Founded in 1970, ENA has proven to be an indispensable resource to the global emergency nursing community. With more than 42,000 members worldwide, ENA advocates for patient safety, develops industry-leading practice standards and guidelines, and guides emergency healthcare public policy. ENA members have expertise in triage, patient care, disaster preparedness, and all aspects of emergency care. Additional information is available at www.ena.org .
ENA Media Contact:
Marie Grimaldi
Director, PR & Communications
847-460-4080
marie.grimaldi@ena.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ena-doubles-down-on-commitment-to-ena-foundation-with-50000-gift-300582507.html
SOURCE Emergency Nurses Association