Global Big Iron to Big Data Leader Strengthens Market-Leading High Availability Portfolio
PEARL RIVER, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Syncsort , the global leader in Big Iron to Big Data solutions, today announced that it has completed the acquisition of Trader’s, a France-based global provider of high availability software solutions for multiple platforms, specializing in IBM i (AS/400, iSeries, System i). The acquisition extends Syncsort’s leadership in Data Availability and market-leading IBM i High Availability product portfolio.
“Enterprises need to set the bar high to ensure availability of mission-critical data, systems and applications to minimize disruptions that impact business operations, increase costs and reduce customer satisfaction,” said Josh Rogers, CEO, Syncsort. “The addition of Trader’s extends our market-leading position in providing these capabilities for IBM i. It also expands our scale and global footprint, especially in EMEA, while advancing our ability to serve large to mid-size customers.”
Trader’s provides high availability software that replicates updates to critical data on a production system in real-time on a remote IBM i (AS/400, iSeries, i5). It includes dynamic monitoring between the source and target systems, triggering alert procedures or switching applications and users to the back-up system when needed.
The Trader’s transaction follows Syncsort’s combination with Vision Solutions and recent acquisitions in the IBM i security space of Enforcive and Cilasoft that continue to build on its unrivaled expertise and proven leadership in IBM i and AIX Power Systems platforms. It advances Syncsort’s position as a leading provider of business resilience solutions – high availability, disaster recovery, migration, data replication and security – that protect data and systems and minimize downtime as enterprises transform and automate their operations. It also advances Syncsort’s growing capabilities to optimize, integrate and assure the availability of critical IBM i data.
Bredin Prat served as legal advisor to Syncsort.
About Syncsort
Syncsort is a trusted enterprise software provider and the global leader in Big Iron to Big Data solutions. More than 6,000 organizations, including 84 of the Fortune 100, use the company’s products to solve their most complex data management challenges, on premise and in the cloud. Syncsort helps customers optimize traditional data systems and deliver mission-critical data from these systems to next-generation analytic environments. Its Big Iron to Big Data portfolio now features the #1 high availability product for IBM i Power Systems, powerful cross-platform capacity management, best-in-class mainframe app and machine data access & integration, and market-leading data quality capabilities. Rediscover Syncsort at syncsort.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005285/en/
SHIFT Communications
Sarah Babbitt, 617-779-1803
syncsort@shiftcomm.com
Source: Syncsort