AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- On the heels of a $32.64 million capital raise, HNI Healthcare, a technology-enabled company dedicated to transforming hospital-based medicine, announces the appointment of Michael Saunders as President.
Michael Gonzales, CEO of HNI Healthcare, stated, “Given accelerated demand for HNI’s products and services, coupled with our expansion into Post-Acute hospitals and alternative payment models, the timing couldn’t be better to welcome Michael to the team. Saunders’ proven track record in organizational leadership and operational excellence, coupled with his hunger to drive profitable growth, will be of significant value.”
Saunders brings 23 years of innovative healthcare and practice management experience to HNI. He provided 14 years of transformational leadership at Pinnacle (Anesthesia) Partners in Medicine which was ultimately acquired by US Anesthesia Partners, where he served most recently as Chief Operating Officer.
“In an evolving healthcare landscape, HNI Healthcare’s visionary, metric-driven approach provides a disciplined pathway to the highest quality of care, while driving transformational efficiencies in hospital performance,” Saunders said. “I look forward to joining an organization with a proven track record of success and with such potential for real change.”
Saunders joined the company January 8 th .
About HNI Healthcare (HNI)
HNI is a technology-enabled physician practice management company focused on the delivery of full-service facility-based physician programs to improve the quality of patient care. The Company’s physicians, processes and technologies enable hospitals to improve key quality and performance metrics through a more clinically integrated care model. HNI is based in Austin, Texas. Visit our website at www.hnihealthcare.com.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005767/en/
HNI Healthcare
Katryn Chansley, 512-422-6769
Vice President, Marketing & Communications
katryn.chansley@hnihc.com
Source: HNI Healthcare