DALLAS, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Provasi Capital Partners LP today announced that Kamal Jafarnia has joined the firm in the role of managing director, legal and business development. A seasoned corporate securities attorney, Mr. Jafarnia is a veteran compliance professional and capable financial services executive with over 25 years of experience advising public and private companies in complex securities offerings, regulatory issues, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate governance matters. Additionally, Mr. Jafarnia will also serve as deputy general counsel for both Provasi Capital Partners and the organization's parent company, Stratera Holdings, LLC.
"We are very pleased about Kamal's addition to our firm and look forward to leveraging his well-rounded experience in business development, legal, regulatory, and compliance programs to further distinguish our organization," said Frank Muller, CEO of Provasi Capital Partners.
Before joining Provasi Capital Partners, Mr. Jafarnia had a visible role at W. P. Carey Inc.—a NYSE-listed real estate investment trust—and concurrently served as senior vice president of W. P. Carey; executive vice president, chief compliance officer, and general counsel of Carey Financial, LLC; and senior vice president and chief compliance officer of Carey Credit Advisors, Inc.
Prior to W.P. Carey, Mr. Jafarnia practiced law at Greenberg Traurig, LLP, where he focused his practice on REITs, business development companies and securities matters. Additionally, Mr. Jafarnia previously served as both fund and broker-dealer counsel to the financial services and products group at Alston & Bird. Other roles include serving as executive vice president of Franklin Square Capital Partners and vice president and assistant general counsel of Stratera Holding's predecessor company.
"I am very excited to join Provasi and return to my home state of Texas," said Mr. Jafarnia. "I sincerely believe in the firm's mission of supporting financial advisors and their clients, and I look forward to helping Provasi create a meaningful value-add legacy in the alternative investment industry."
Mr. Jafarnia received his LL.M. in securities and financial regulation from Georgetown University Law Center, a J.D. from Temple University School of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts in economics and government from the University of Texas at Austin.
About Provasi Capital Partners LP
Provasi Capital Partners LP offers access to specialized investment strategies through a multi-manager approach presenting advisors and their clients with unique options for allocating capital, managing risk and diversifying assets. For more information, call 866.655.3600 or visit provasicapital.com . Member FINRA / SIPC .
Jonathan Ball
Provasi Capital Partners
jball@provasimail.com
469.341.2386
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kamal-jafarnia-named-managing-director-legal-and-business-development-of-provasi-capital-partners-300577748.html
SOURCE Provasi Capital Partners LP