HOUSTON, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Crossmark Global Investments, Inc. (Crossmark), a leading provider of responsible investment solutions, as part of its multi-year growth plan, has enhanced its national accounts team. The team is responsible for building and enhancing relationships with intermediary distribution partners, including broker-dealers, home offices, TAMPS and subadvised relationships.
Casey Ahern has joined the firm in January as Director of National Accounts. Prior to joining Crossmark, he spent five years as Vice President of National Accounts at Carillon Tower Advisers, a subsidiary of Raymond James Financial.
Jordan Izumi will serve as Vice President of National Accounts. Mr. Izumi has been with the firm since 2015, and he was previously a member of Crossmark's Advisor Solutions Group.
Mr. Ahern and Mr. Izumi will report directly to the firm's Managing Director and Head of Distribution, David Rentfrow.
"Casey and Jordan will be instrumental in furthering our efforts to elevate our intermediary distribution platform," Mr. Rentfrow said. "This team will help the firm in its mission to provide innovative investment solutions to financial advisors and the clients they serve as well as helping our distribution partners deepen their capabilities in responsible investing."
To learn more about Crossmark, visit the firm's website, crossmarkglobal.com , or LinkedIn page .
About Crossmark Global Investments:
Crossmark Global Investments is an independent investment advisor headquartered in Houston, Texas. Founded in 1987, the firm serves retail and institutional investors across the country. Crossmark is the exclusive manager of the award-winning Steward Funds, a family of values-based screened funds.
Media Contacts:
Stephanie Dressler/Nicole Hakimi
Dukas Linden Public Relations
(212) 704-7385
Stephanie@dlpr.com / Nicole@dlpr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crossmark-global-investments-expands-national-accounts-team-with-two-new-appointments-underscoring-commitment-to-financial-intermediaries-300588651.html
SOURCE Crossmark Global Investments, Inc.