Richard Sullivan Joins MiTek to Spearhead Global OPEX Focus
CHESTERFIELD, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- MiTek® Industries, a Berkshire Hathaway company, today announced that Richard Sullivan has joined its leadership team as Vice President, Enterprise Operational Excellence. In this newly created role, Mr. Sullivan will come alongside and partner with MiTek’s global Business Unit leaders as a resource and internal champion to assist them on their journeys of continuous improvement.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006055/en/
Richard Sullivan has joined MiTek as Vice President, Enterprise Operational Excellence. (Photo: Business Wire)
Prior to joining MiTek, Mr. Sullivan held numerous operational excellence executive management positions, where he collaborated with senior leaders to drive value through continuous improvement. He was previously General Manager Quality and Continuous Improvement at Carpenter Technology, a manufacturer and distributor of advanced, high-performance specialty materials. He also served as Vice President of Business Transformation, EH&S, Chief Supply Chain Officer at Harsco, a worldwide industrial services and manufacturing company with operations in 54 countries. Prior to beginning his career in business, Mr. Sullivan served his country as a logistics officer in the United States Marine Corps. A graduate of the University of Maryland, Mr. Sullivan also holds a Masters in Science in Management Systems from the University of Southern California.
“Rich Sullivan is a wonderful addition to the MiTek enterprise team. He brings a wealth of practical experience in helping businesses unlock value using the tools of continuous improvement: team building, problem solving, simplifying processes, reducing waste, lowering costs, improving quality, and driving productivity gains,” said MiTek’s Chief Operating Officer Tom Valvo. “We are thrilled to have Rich on board to collaborate with our global leadership teams in structuring and advancing their OPEX initiatives.”
About MiTek Industries
MiTek Industries is a diversified global supplier of software, engineered products, services, and equipment to the residential, commercial, and industrial, construction sectors. MiTek Industries’ passion for our associates’ well-being and for our customers’ success is the company’s hallmark. A Berkshire Hathaway company (NYSE: brk-a , NYSE: brk-b ) since 2001, the Company has operations in more than 40 countries on six continents. Learn more: www.Mii.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006055/en/
For MiTek
John D. Wagner, 919-796-9984
Jdwagner@WagnerPR.com
Source: MiTek Industries