In International Living's Annual Global Retirement Index 2018 , we ranked the 24 best retirement havens in the world, where you can live comfortably for less than you can in the U.S. And while all of these destinations are affordable, we have found the most cost-effective havens from the results of the "Cost of Living" category in the Index.
This is possibly our most definitive category in the Index, due to the ease of getting hard numbers. Each of our scouts fills in extensive cost-of-living questionnaires tailored to the needs and wants of an expat retiree. The category evaluates things like day-to-day expenses—from the cost of a flight back to the U.S., groceries, rent, movie theater tickets, eating out, garbage collection, gas, gym membership, and all the hidden and often unconsidered costs.
Below are the top five retirement destinations for an affordable cost of living:
5. Bolivia 
Peter Langer | Getty Images Cochabamba, Bolivia If you're looking for a country that gives you a big bang for your buck, it would be tough to beat Bolivia . Centered in the interior of South America, this country offers a variety of lifestyle options for a fraction of North American costs.
Lovers of all things urban and sleek will feel right at home in Cochabamba. This city of 650,000 people is full of palm-lined boulevards, trendy boutique stores, and shimmering condo buildings. All the amenities you could want, from Korean restaurants to sprawling grocery stores and multiplex cinemas, are available in this city.
A spacious two-bedroom condo in a secure building uptown can be found for $600 per month. Housing in other cities is often even cheaper. In the colonial city of Sucre, two-bedroom apartments near the historic district rent out for as little as $350.
Read more from International Living: 
The world's best places to retire in 2018
First impressions of Nicaragua from a recent expat 
How to earn on your Vietnamese adventure 
But it's not just accommodation that's less expensive in Bolivia. Nearly everything is more affordable than in the U.S. Expats report that basic utilities tend to run around $20 per month, thanks in part to the mild weather which requires little heating or no air conditioning and the government subsidies on liquid petroleum.
Here, eating out doesn't need to be just for special occasions, you can have a large dinner (enough to feed two people) of grilled meats, salad, potatoes, and fruit for $10. And wine drinkers will find a huge cost savings on their dinner drink of choice. Because Bolivia has its own wine country, bottles of locally produced wine start at less than $3.
Most places in Bolivia are pedestrian friendly and perfectly walkable, but when you need to travel long-distance, public transportation is cheap. In Tarija, a taxi can take you from one end of the small city to the other for less than $2. The country's national airline, BOA, also provides cheap fares between cities, starting at $35.
IL Correspondent Wendy Dechambeau says, "Living it up while conserving funds is both easy and enjoyable in this Latin American country."
4. Nicaragua 
Inti Ocon | AFP | Getty Images People participate in a sawdust carpets contest during the celebration of the Holy Week in front of the cathedral in Leon, on April 10, 2017. Some people want to live in nature, and Nicaragua has plenty of that. But most people come to Nicaragua looking for a cheaper place to live where they can escape the everyday stresses, and afford a higher quality of life.
Consistently, Nicaragua is one of the most economical countries in which to live. You can find a nice "Nica-style" one-bedroom furnished house or apartment for $300 to $400 a month, often a block or two from the beach or with a beautiful mountain view, well-located, and in a safe family neighborhood. Modest homes and condos often furnished, can be found for less than $100,000.
Nicaragua-style meals typically range from $3 at local markets to $6 in regular restaurants. Fancy seafood dishes may set you back up to $20, but that usually includes a glass of wine, beer or rum.
IL Nicaragua correspondent Bonnie Hayman says, "Fresh fruits and vegetables can be bought for a song. I usually pay about $8 a week for what I need. Chicken, beef, and pork are not only cheaper than back home, GMO is not allowed in Nicaragua. Everything you eat here is fresher, better, healthier."
Most local live music venues are free. You can go out to find any type of music you love: rock 'n roll, blues, jazz, swing, merengue, salsa, Nicaraguan folkloric music and pay about $1.50 for a beer or rum and coke.
If you are on a budget you can easily live in Nicaragua as a couple for $1,500 per month, or $1,200 for a single person. However, you have to adjust your expectations. For more amenities or your comfort foods from home, your budget will definitely go up. Nicaragua allows you to live a higher quality life for much less. Your needs and lifestyle will determine exactly how much you will pay.
3. Peru 
Richard Silver Photo | Getty Images The Fountain of Illusion at The Magic Water Circuit in Lima, Peru. Peru is one of the least expensive places to live in Latin America. Food, transport, accommodation and clothes cost much less than in the U.S. Retirees looking for a high quality of life at a low cost will not be disappointed.
Even in the capital city of Lima, a couple can live on less than $2,000 per month. Expat couples report monthly budgets as low as $1,200, including rent. Of course, like any large city, the sky is the limit but many say that the cost is about half that of New York City for a similar lifestyle.
In the southern sunny city of Arequipa, two-bedroom and three-bedroom unfurnished apartments can easily be found for less than $400 per month. Cusco and the picturesque Sacred Valley of the Incas is another low-cost area to live. Foreigners are permitted to purchase real estate outright, even if they are not residing in the country.
IL Peru Correspondent, Steve LePoidevin, and his wife, Nancy, live in Huanchaco. "We pay $600 per month for our furnished, three-bedroom, two-bathroom unit. It's only five minutes from the beach and the local market, it is an ideal location."
A couple will typically pay $20 to $30 for a meal in a mid-priced restaurant. But if they have the menu del dia (menu of the day) in one of the many small local eateries, it will cost less than $3 each for a delicious two or three-course meal, including a non-alcoholic drink. Local beers cost less than $1 but you will pay around $5 per pint for one of the dozens of Peruvian craft beers that are becoming popular throughout the country.
Head to the local markets and you will be able to purchase enough fruits and vegetables to last a week for less than $20.
For all your healthcare needs, Peru has a large network of private hospitals and clinics throughout the country. Consultations with a specialist can be less than $20. Some hospital networks offer their own policies for as little as $100 per month.
High-speed internet and cell phone service is readily available. All-inclusive plans for cable TV, internet, and phone vary but $60 per month is pretty average. Cell phone