VICTOR, Idaho, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- City Pass, Inc. (aka CityPASS ® ), the company that packages prepaid admission—at tremendous savings—to the top attractions in 12 North American destinations, has promoted Annie Allen to the position of vice president, global tourism sales.
While Allen's new role gives her increased responsibility in overseeing the company's tourism marketing efforts and third-party sales programs, she will continue to spearhead the CityPASS presence at industry events, including World Travel Market (U.K.), ITB (Germany) and IPW (U.S.), the travel industry's premier international marketplace and the largest generator of inbound travel to the United States. She is also a key participant in sales missions orchestrated by several CityPASS partner destinations (Visit California, NYC and Company, the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau, Visit Seattle and others) to Europe, Australia, Mexico, Asia and South America.
In addition to her CityPASS responsibilities, Allen also makes time to serve on the U.S. Travel Association's IPW Advisory Council.
Since joining the CityPASS organization in 2005, Allen has steadily added new responsibilities and earned promotions. She is currently based in San Francisco and can be reached at annie@citypass.com .
About CityPASS: For more than 20 years, CityPASS ticket booklets and admission cards have been premier products for travelers who want to visit a destination's top attractions while enjoying significant savings. CityPASS ticket booklets are currently available in 12 North American destinations: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, New York City, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle, Southern California, Tampa Bay and Toronto. For more information, visit CityPASS.com .
CityPASS® is a registered trademark of City Pass, Inc., and the exclusive property of City Pass, Inc.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/citypass-promotes-annie-allen-to-vice-president-of-global-tourism-sales-300579521.html
SOURCE City Pass, Inc.