Company Issues Preliminary Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 Expectations
In Conjunction with J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference Participation
Preliminary Fourth Quarter 2017 Expectations
Fourth quarter revenue expected to be between $113.5 million to $115.0 million, up 18% to 20% year-over-year as reported and 13% to 15% year-over-year on an organic basis 1
Fourth quarter gross margin expected to be between 66.0% to 66.5%, a year-over-year increase of 620 to 670 basis points
Fourth quarter income before taxes expected to be between $3.0 million to $6.0 million
Fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA expected to be between $23.5 million to $27.5 million, up 78% year-over-year, assuming the midpoint
Fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA margin expected to be 22.3%, a year-over-year increase of 740 basis points, assuming the midpoint
Preliminary Full Year 2017 Expectations
Full year revenue expected to be between $448.2 million to $449.7 million, up 5% year-over-year, assuming the midpoint
Full year gross margin expected to be approximately 66%, a year-over-year increase of over 300 basis points
Full year income before taxes expected to be between $31.0 million to $34.0 million
Full year Adjusted EBITDA expected to be between $107.0 million to $111.0 million, up 9% year-over-year, assuming the midpoint
Full year Adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to be between 23.9% to 24.7%, a year-over-year increase of 50 to 130 basis points, assuming the midpoint
Company expects to provide 2018 guidance in conjunction with its fourth quarter and full year 2017 earnings release on February 20, 2018
Please see Inovalon’s new Investor Brochure available at http://investors.inovalon.com , as well as the Company’s 2018 J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference presentation at http://investors.inovalon.com , for additional information such as preliminary 2017 connectivity metrics, Inovalon ONE™ Platform patient counts, and revenue diversification, amongst other metrics.
BOWIE, Md., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Inovalon (Nasdaq:INOV), a leading technology company providing advanced, cloud-based platforms empowering a data-driven transformation from volume-based to value-based models across the healthcare ecosystem, today announced preliminary unaudited expected results for the fourth quarter and full year 2017, in conjunction with its participation at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference.
“We are pleased with our execution in 2017 and are excited about the adoption that we are seeing of the Inovalon ONE™ Platform,” said Keith Dunleavy, M.D., Inovalon’s chief executive officer and chairman of the board. “Our differentiated cloud-native capabilities, ecosystem connectivity, and expanding datasets are enabling new opportunities, driving market demand, and are resulting in positive financial performance. Reflecting this, we experienced double-digit organic revenue growth and strong year-over-year margin expansion in the fourth quarter, within our previously-conveyed guidance.”
“Our expected fourth quarter results continue to demonstrate the increased operating leverage we are seeing in our business,” said Chris Greiner, chief financial officer and chief operating officer of Inovalon. “Favorable offering mix and pricing, as well as technology-enabled efficiencies, have led to expanded gross margin, allowing us to continue to invest in innovation and sales, while still delivering year-over-year Adjusted EBITDA margin expansion, in line with our prior guidance.”
In addition, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 enacted on December 22, 2017, the Company will remeasure its deferred tax assets and liabilities. While the Company is still evaluating the impact of the changes to the tax code, the Company expects the changes to result in a significant decrease in provision for income taxes and corresponding material increase in net income and Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter and full year 2017. The Company will provide a further update on the impact of this adjustment in its fourth quarter and full year 2017 earnings release on February 20, 2018.
All full-year and fourth quarter 2017 estimated financial information contained herein, including performance and results, are preliminary estimates determined in good faith based on Inovalon’s internal reporting for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2017 and remain subject to the completion of the Company's customary quarterly close and review procedures related to its year-end financial statement closing process and review and audit by the Company’s independent public accounting firm. Where a range of potential results has been provided herein, a midpoint of such range is assumed for illustrative purposes only, and such midpoint should not be viewed as an indication of management’s expectations or actual results. Material adjustments may arise between the date of this press release and the dates on which the Company announces its full fourth quarter and fiscal year 2017 results and files its Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2017 with the SEC.
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are Non-GAAP measures. Explanations of why the Company finds Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin useful and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to GAAP are included later in this press release.
J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference
The Company is scheduled to present at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference at 3:00 p.m. (PT) on Wednesday, January 10, 2018. Investors may access a live audio webcast of the presentation on the Investor Relations section of Inovalon’s website at http://investors.inovalon.com . An archived version of this presentation will remain posted for a limited time. In addition, the Company has posted on the Investor Relations section of its website an Investor Brochure with additional information, as well as the Company’s presentation deck for the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference.
About Inovalon
Inovalon is a leading technology company providing cloud-based platforms empowering a data-driven transformation from volume-based to value-based models throughout the healthcare industry. Through the Inovalon ONE™ Platform, Inovalon brings to the marketplace a national-scale capability to interconnect with the healthcare ecosystem on massive scale, aggregate and analyze data in petabyte volumes to arrive at sophisticated insights in real-time, drive impact wherever it is analytically identified best to intervene, and intuitively visualize data and information to inform business strategy and execution. Leveraging its platform, unparalleled proprietary data sets, and industry-leading subject matter expertise, Inovalon enables the assessment and improvement of clinical and quality outcomes and financial performance across the healthcare ecosystem. From health plans and provider organizations, to pharmaceutical, medical device, and diagnostics companies, Inovalon's unique achievement of value is delivered through the effective progression of “Turning Data into Insight, and Insight into Action ® .” Providing technology that supports a client base approaching 500 healthcare organizations, Inovalon's platforms are informed by data pertaining to more than 903,000 physicians, more than 385,000 clinical facilities, and 231 million Americans. For more information, visit www.inovalon.com .
Forward Looking Statements
Certain st