SAN DIEGO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WCG is pleased to announce that Jill Sheffield has been appointed to WCG's Board of Directors.
"I am honored to be a Director on the WCG Board," said Ms. Sheffield. "WCG's approach to empowering, educating, and enabling girls and women to make informed choices about their reproductive and sexual health is pivotal to addressing the global unmet needs in women's healthcare. I look forward to furthering WCG's mission and impact in my new role."
Jill Sheffield is the founder of Women Deliver, an international advocacy organization that convenes global leaders to galvanize action on maternal health and women's empowerment. Most recently, Ms. Sheffield was one of few civil society representatives appointed to the UN Secretary General's Commission on Information and Accountability for Women's and Children's Health. Ms. Sheffield is the Chair of the FIGO Working Group on Contraception, serves as a Senior External Adviser to the IPPF Governing Council, and is on the Board of PPFA/Global. She is also a consultant/senior adviser to Global Health Strategies on reproductive health and choices.
Ms. Sheffield is also the founder of Family Care International (FCI), a distinguished non-governmental organization and winner of the 2008 United Nations Population Award for outstanding work in sexual and reproductive health and rights. Ms. Sheffield completed advanced degrees at Columbia University, Teachers College, where she was later recognized as a distinguished alumna for her international work in women's health and education, and she also received the American Public Health Association's Lifetime Achievement Award in 2008. She was Director of International Programmes at the Carnegie Corporation, and founded FCI in 1987 in response to the call at the Women's Decade Conference in Nairobi which identified the silent tragedy that one woman dies each minute from pregnancy related causes. Though she has played a central role in several key world conferences, Jill Sheffield believes her true education came in the late 1960s when she worked in Nairobi, Kenya's Pumwani Hospital in the first family planning/reproductive health outpatient clinic opened in East Africa.
"WCG is proud to welcome Jill to the organization and to the Board," said Saundra Pelletier, Founding CEO and Chair of the WCG Board. "Jill's tremendous contributions in the field of women's health and reproductive rights makes her an invaluable asset to WCG, especially as we move forward into what promises to be a very exciting year for our organization. I am confident that we will benefit greatly with Jill's commitment and expertise as WCG continues to deliver on our mission for women and girls."
About WCG
WCG is an international non-profit organization committed to empowering, educating and enabling girls and women to make informed choices and access critical reproductive health products and services. WCG's credentials in product introduction have made it a preferred partner of organizations looking to move products from laboratories and manufacturing plants to the women who need them. WCG excels at forming strategic partnerships to introduce and create access to new contraceptive methods around the world. WCG's quality and regulatory department is experienced in the global registration of drugs and devices, and in aiding manufacturers to improve their processes to meet international best practices. WCG creates options for women when it comes to their reproductive health — no matter where they live. For more information, please visit www.wcgcares.org .
Ellen Thomas
VP, Corporate Communications
Phone: +1.718.490.3248
E-mail: ethomas@wcgcares.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wcg-welcomes-jill-sheffield-to-its-board-of-directors-300587202.html
SOURCE WCG