AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- uShip , the logistics technology company that makes it easy, fast, and affordable to ship large goods and freight, today announced long-time enterprise technology executive Kris Lamb has joined the company as Chief Technology Officer.
Previously Lamb served as vice president and general manager of cloud security at Austin-based Forcepoint. He brings more than 15 years of leadership in engineering, product management, enterprise software, security, cloud/hosting, SMB, and mobility at both public and private companies.
“Kris has an incredible track record as a transformational technology leader, a successful recruiter of top-notch engineering teams, and one who knows what it takes to build and scale innovation at the highest level,” said Mike Williams, CEO of uShip. “With logistics technology evolving at lightning speed, Kris is the right person to drive uShip’s innovation forward as we continue to push the envelope and deliver first of its kind digital freight matching for people, businesses, and enterprises.”
“What made the uShip CTO role so attractive is the opportunity to join an organization with a renowned company culture and that’s truly upending logistics, an industry that’s ripe for transformation,” said Lamb. “I’ve always looked for opportunities to establish, lead, and grow product and engineering teams that truly turn heads. uShip is exactly that kind of opportunity. The company is solving problems and automating freight processes in ways no one else is doing. That’s incredibly exciting to me.”
Lamb’s initial priorities include continued expansion of Drive4Schenker, the online land transport platform powered by uShip DB Schenker across Europe, as well as growing product and engineering teams to support uShip’s consumer and less-than-truckload (LTL) commercial freight platforms.
Before Forcepoint, Lamb was VP of Engineering at Bastille Networks and held leadership positions at Arbor Networks (where he was CTO), IBM, and Internet Security Systems. He began his career leading the mission to build, scale, and grow X-Force, Internet Security Systems’ world-renowned security research organization.
About uShip
uShip is an online shipping, transport and freight marketplace that enables individuals to enterprises, and any business with freight, to price shop, book and ship anything they want to move—locally or globally. From cars to cranes, freight to furniture, and beyond, uShip’s platform enables feedback-rated service providers to compete for business. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, uShip operates globally and is localized in 19 countries. Find out more by visiting uship.com , following on Facebook at facebook.com/uship or Twitter at @uship .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006019/en/
Diffusion PR
Allison VanNest, 646-571-0120
uship@diffusionpr.com
Source: uShip