ALLENTOWN, Pa. and LAS VEGAS, Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lighthouse Network today announced the acquisition of Shift4 Corporation, provider of the world's largest independent payment gateway. Shift4 is the leader in secure payment processing solutions, serving tens of thousands of clients across North America, including some of the most widely recognized brands in retail and hospitality such as Choice Hotels, Caesars Entertainment, Red Roof Inn, Sleep Number and the PGA Tour, among many others.
Lighthouse Network has also announced that the entire company will rebrand as Shift4 Payments. Lighthouse Network was established in 2017 to power numerous brands in the point-of-sale industry by providing payment processing and technology solutions, as well as shared corporate services. Shift4 Payments will replace the Lighthouse Network brand at the top of the organization and power the payment processing services for the company's Harbortouch, Future POS, Restaurant Manager and POSitouch product brands. Citizens Bank acted as financial advisor to Lighthouse Network for the transaction.
Founded in 1994, Shift4 holds 11 patents for their proprietary payments technologies and is credited with inventing payment data tokenization. The company is also a leader in PCI-validated point-to-point encryption (P2PE), EMV and numerous other secure processing solutions. Shift4 processes in excess of $60 billion annually and, combined with the former Lighthouse Network, the organization will collectively process in excess of $100 billion a year in payments. The Shift4 platform has maintained 100% gateway system uptime since 2008 with fully redundant, geographically diverse data centers (hot/hot) powering its robust processing infrastructure. Shift4 also has over 300 unique software integrations supporting ISVs and merchants in a wide range of markets, including Food & Beverage, Hospitality, Retail and e-Commerce, with full Omni-commerce capabilities.
Jared Isaacman, CEO of Shift4 Payments (formerly Lighthouse Network), states, "This acquisition is transformational for our organization as it enables us to power our industry-leading POS brands with a best-in-class payments platform that is second to none in terms of security, reliability and functionality. But this story is not just about our Harbortouch, Future POS, Restaurant Manager and POSitouch brands, as we also aim to empower the over 300 existing Shift4 software integrations with game-changing benefits. Shift4 is truly in a class of its own when it comes to secure payment processing, and as such, rebranding Lighthouse Network as Shift4 Payments reflects our commitment to powering all the leading software brands with premium payment processing services."
Shift4 President & CTO J.D. Oder II adds, "This acquisition combines the strengths of two significant and well-established organizations with complementary capabilities, fulfilling the notion that 'one plus one' can equal a much larger number than the math implies. Shift4's merchants and ISV partners for years have asked for more than just an outstanding gateway solution, but the full spectrum of payment processing services. We can now meet that need and so much more."
For more information, visit www.shift4.com/announcement .
About Shift4 Payments
Shift4 Payments is the leader in secure payment processing solutions, powering the top point-of-sale and software providers across numerous verticals, including Food & Beverage, Hospitality, Lodging, Gaming, Retail and e-Commerce. This includes the company's Harbortouch, Restaurant Manager, POSitouch, and Future POS brands, as well as over 300 additional software integrations in virtually every industry. With eight offices across the U.S. and Europe, 7,000 sales partners and three state-of-the-art data centers, the company securely processes over 1 billion transactions annually for nearly 200,000 businesses, representing over $100 billion in payments each year. For additional information, visit www.shift4.com .
MEDIA CONTACT :
Nate Hirshberg
AVP, Marketing
(888) 276-2108 x1107
nhirshberg@shift4.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lighthouse-network-acquires-shift4-corporation-and-announces-company-rebranding-300582300.html
SOURCE Shift4 Payments