PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) announced today that Jeremy Horner has been promoted to assistant vice president of Corporate Accounting .
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005038/en/
Jeremy Horner, assistant vice president of Corporate Accounting at The Standard. (Photo: Business Wire)
Horner joined The Standard in 2009 and has more than 14 years of experience in accounting and finance, including four years at Deloitte & Touche. Most recently, he served as second vice president of Corporate Accounting at The Standard. In his new role, Horner will have responsibility over treasury as well as all investment accounting at The Standard.
“Jeremy’s been a rising star within Corporate Accounting and has had significant accomplishments for the division and company,” said Rob Erickson, vice president of Corporate Finance and Controller at The Standard. “We are excited to see how he will move our division and the company forward.”
Horner is a Certified Public Accountant and has a Bachelor of Accountancy and a Master of Accountancy from Brigham Young University.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, LLC, StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005038/en/
General Media:
The Standard
Bob Speltz, 971-321-3162
Senior Director, Public Affairs
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard