Philadelphia, PA, Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Beyond Celiac, a leading patient advocacy organization serving the 2.5 million Americans with celiac disease, announced the addition of two new members to its Board of Directors. These board members will help further the organization’s mission of uniting with patients and partners to drive diagnosis, advance research, and accelerate the discovery of new treatments and a cure for this serious, genetic autoimmune disease.
Chad P. Shaffer, MD, FAAFP , Assistant Professor of Medicine, Retired, University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine. Dr. Shaffer was a practicing family physician with more than 25 years’ experience until becoming ill with refractory celiac disease . In addition to bringing extensive medical experience and a first-hand patient perspective to this board position, Dr. Shaffer participated in the groundbreaking Beyond Celiac 2015 Research Summit and served as a co-chair of the very successful inaugural Step Beyond Celiac Kansas City 5K and Auto Show, raising $60,000 for Beyond Celiac in 2017. Dr. Shaffer joins the Beyond Celiac Board from Overland Park, KS.
Jennifer Platzkere Snyder , Partner, Dilworth Paxson LLP. Ms. Snyder represents employers in addressing all aspects of labor and employment law, including employment discrimination litigation, wage and hour compliance, restrictive covenants and trade secrets, and traditional labor-management relations. In 2017, Ms. Snyder was inducted into the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers, and she currently serves as the Employer Co-Chair of the American Bar Association’s Committee on Practice and Procedure under the National Labor Relations Act. A graduate of the Wharton School of Business and Villanova University School of Law, Ms. Snyder lives with her husband and three children in Bala Cynwyd, PA. In addition to her business and legal expertise, Ms. Snyder joins the board with a personal family connection to celiac disease, gluten sensitivity, as well as a variety of other related conditions.
“We are proud to add these respected professionals to our leadership team. Their support and participation will help us advance celiac disease awareness, diagnosis and treatments,” noted Alice Bast, Beyond Celiac CEO.
Alan M. Ehrlich, MD , Executive Deputy Editor, DynaMed and Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School. Dr. Ehrlich joined the Beyond Celiac Board of Directors in 2016 and assumed the role of Board Chair in November 2017. Dr. Ehrlich brings personal knowledge of celiac disease to this position. He joins the Board from Westborough, MA.
About Beyond Celiac
Beyond Celiac, a 501 (c)(3) non-profit organization formerly known as the National Foundation for Celiac Awareness, is advancing research for treatments in addition to the gluten-free diet, which is difficult to manage and often incomplete and insufficient. In 2017, Beyond Celiac launched Go Beyond Celiac , an online patient platform and registry designed to bring patients and scientists together to speed research. For more information, please visit www.beyondceliac.org.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/ff4f6dc8-e59a-4d41-821e-6c51afec6316
Claire Baker Beyond Celiac` 215-325-1306 ext. 111 cbaker@beyondceliac.org
Source: Beyond Celiac`