INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Neurosurgical medical device maker of the world's first and only trans-sulcal system for standardized subcortical surgery, NICO Corporation , today announced Tim Davis as the new Vice President of Sales. Tim brings a strong history of industry sales leadership roles with over 20 years at privately held Anspach Companies, Synthes-Anspach, and the last five years as Vice President of U.S. Sales with DePuy Synthes, a Johnson & Johnson (J&J) company. During his tenure at J&J, Tim managed the fastest growing companywide sales division through two acquisitions, restructuring and integrating sales channels to consistently outperform the market.
Tim arrives at NICO with the goal of doubling the size of the sales organization as the company releases several new products contributing to its differentiated technology solutions that provide minimally disruptive access, automated removal and intra-operative collection using an integrated and standardized surgical approach. More than 50 published papers , posters and abstracts provide clinical evidence suggesting improved clinical and economic outcomes in subcortical brain surgery and hemorrhagic stroke evacuation using the surgical process known as the BrainPath Approach . As an officer of the company, his focus will be scaling the business, further developing processes for standardization, and driving consistency in clinical and economic outcomes as the company aggressively builds its brand and pursues geographic expansion.
"Tim is an expert in the field, and under his leadership, NICO will continue to build a world-class sales network to support the growing interest in a new way of performing less invasive brain surgery for subcortical, skull base and intraventricular tumors and cysts and hemorrhagic stroke," said Jim Pearson, NICO president and CEO. "NICO sits on the edge of a major opportunity to bring a true minimally invasive surgical approach to the last major organ in the body without it – the brain. Tim is a critical component in advancing this effort both among our talented and dedicated field team and with clinicians in the U.S. and beyond."
Tim earned his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Presbyterian College in South Carolina. In addition, he has completed the J&J "Leaders Developing Leaders Course" and "Financial Acumen Bootcamp" from the Jack Welsh Management Institute.
More than 15,500 procedures using the NICO Myriad and nearly 6,500 procedures using BrainPath have been successfully completed at more than 200 BrainPath Centers in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, Singapore and Australia. BrainPath and Myriad work together as a system using imaging, navigation and intervention to achieve a true minimally invasive approach to neurosurgery. More than 900 neurosurgeons, residents and fellows are trained on BrainPath.
To learn more about BrainPath and other technologies used in the BrainPath Approach, visit NICOneuro.com , follow news updates on LinkedIn , and view surgical videos and patient stories on YouTube at NICOneuroCorp .
Contact: Sue Goin
Sue.Goin@Sapphire-Com.com
M: 317.402.8690
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nico-corporation-appoints-new-vice-president-of-sales-300584899.html
SOURCE NICO Corporation