Tax impact - $3.35 bln gain 
Helped by - One-time gain related to the new tax law 
Hurt by - Higher-than-expected non-interest expenses for 2017; $58.48 bln vs est $54.62 bln 
Executive comment: “The only piece of that pro-growth agenda people can really sink their teeth into is that tax reform that just occurred ... I see a lot to like in it” CEO Tim Sloan 
Analyst’s take: 
RBC - (rating: “outperform,” PT: $60) Although there were many moving parts in WFC’s Q4, overall revenue performance was underwhelming and suggests co has yet to fully move past its sales practice issues 
Barclays - (rating: “overweight,” PT: $75) WFC’s 2018 expense guidance was “okay” ($53.5 bln-$54.5 bln vs. consensus at $53.7 bln) 
BMO - (rating: “market perform” PT: $62) Despite WFC’s 6 pct cost-driven Q4 miss, its forward estimates are essentially unchanged; broker remains bullish on banks 
Evercore - (rating: “outperform,” PT: $65) WFC’s expectations for 2018 expenses in a range of $53.5 bln-$54.5 bln is positively below its estimate of $55 bln 
Citigroup Inc 
Adj. EPS (beat) - $1.28 vs est $1.19 
Rev (beat) - $17.26 bln vs est $ 17.22 bln 
Tax impact - $22 bln charge 
Helped by - Growth in consumer banking, especially in Asia and Mexico 
Hurt by – Charges related to the new U.S. tax law 
Executive comment: “Tax reform is a clear net positive for Citi and its shareholders,” - CEO Michael Corbat 
Analysts’ take: 
Credit Suisse - (rating: “outperform”, PT: $86) Citi’s Q4 results “solid” relative to expectations, where fundamentals were just fine with revenue modestly above forecast in the Global Consumer Banking segment 
Instinet - (rating: “buy”, PT: $86) Despite mixed results overall, sees modest share outperformance given low expectations for Q4 2017 and better-than-expected Consumer credit trends. While tax guidance did not surprise and capital hit was slightly greater than anticipated, results prove “good enough” this quarter 
RBC - (ratings: “outperform,” PT: $79) Although significant non-cash charges related to tax reform obfuscated Q4 performance, underlying trends were generally “strong” and core results exceeded estimates 
Bernstein - (rating: “outperform,” PT: $84) Citi reported a messy Q4 results but its core trends came in a touch better. Modest upward inflection in Global Consumer growth (Mexico better) was a positive for Q4 
Bank of America Corp 
Adj. EPS (beat) - 47 cents vs est. 44 cents 
Rev (miss) - $20.4 bln vs est. $21.53 bln 
Tax impact - $2.9 bln charge 
Helped by - 11 percent rise in net interest income to $11.46 billion 
Hurt by - Tax-related charges, lower trading revenue compared with a year earlier, $292 million charge related to troubled South African furniture retailer Steinhoff International 
Executive comment: Some tax savings would be funneled into technology investments but the bulk of the windfall would be returned to investors - CEO Brian Moynihan 
Analysts’ take: 
Moody’s analyst David Fanger - We consider BAC’s results to be credit positive and consistent 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc 
Adj. EPS (beat)- $5.68 vs est. $4.91 
Rev (beat)- $7.83 bln vs est. $7.61 bln 
Tax impact - $4.4 bln charge 
Helped by: Investment banking revenue due to strong debt and equity underwriting 
Hurt by: One-time charge related to the U.S. tax overhaul, a slump in trading revenue 
Executive comment: “We are working intensely to achieve our $5 billion in strategic growth initiatives with an emphasis on growing earnings and returns” - CFO Marty Chavez 
Analyst’s take: 
Credit Suisse - (rating: “neutral,” PT: $267) GS’ earnings were a mix of positives and negatives with investment banking and investing & lending both stronger and more than offsetting weakness in trading 
Instinet - (rating: “neutral,” PT: $238) Investment bank results surprised “positively”. However disappointment on trading/continued share loss, coupled with lower-quality sources of earnings strength will result in share underperformance 
JPMorgan - (rating: “overweight,” PT: $278) GS’ overall trading results disappointing, mainly in fixed income, currency and commodities client execution, even in light of known low volatility levels. Expects GS to operate with headwinds in Q1 (like Q4) compared to peers due to its business and client mix 
JMP - (rating: “market perform”) GS’ core results were modestly better than expectation but not close to the magnitude of the headline beat 
Morgan Stanley 
Adj. EPS (beat)- 84 cents vs est. 77 cents 
Rev (beat)- $9.5 bln vs est. $9.2 bln 
Tax impact - $1.2 billion charge 
Helped by: Underwriting revenue; Wealth management 
Hurt by: Tax provision; Trading revenue 
Executive comment: Morgan Stanley has met or exceeded all the goals laid out in early 2016 - CEO James Gorman 
Morgan Stanley’s bond trading revenue plunged 45 percent in the quarter, the business still delivered more than $1 billion in average quarterly revenue for the full year. Gorman has said the business needs to generate at least that much to be sustainable. 
Analyst’s take: 
Argus Research - Investments in wealth management business and favorable equity market are helping MS lower earnings volatility, which should aid stock’s valuation over time 
Credit Suisse - (rating: “outperform,” PT: $59) MS reported “solidly positive” Q4 results. MS’ medium-term targets and 2018/2019 financial targets, which include wealth management pre-tax margin of 26-28 pct and expense efficiency ratio of <73 pct should be well-received 
Compass Point - (rating: “sell,” PT: $49) MS’ reported a “beat” on both top and bottom line, driven by gains in investment banking and wealth management businesses 
Nomura - (rating: “buy,” PT: $64) Despite some pockets of revenue weakness, Q4 results showed key tenets of MS bull case. In the backdrop of difficult trading, MS’ results are impressive and expect strategic review to reinforce the bull case Compiled by Diptendu Lahiri in Bengaluru; Edited by Maju Samuel