LYNCHBURG, Va., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Belvac Production Machinery, Inc., a world leader in the design and production of continuous motion rotary machinery used by beverage, food and aerosol can manufacturers around the globe, is pleased to announce the acquisition of Rosario Handel B.V., d/b/a Rosario Can Technology ("Rosario") based in Dongen, The Netherlands. Rosario is an innovative designer, developer and manufacturer of decorators, base coating machinery and associated replacement parts for the production of beverage, food and aerosol cans. Additionally, Rosario is a leading service provider, and equipment rebuilder focused on continually improving previously installed can decorator machines. The addition of Rosario enables Belvac to provide a more comprehensive and differentiated solution to its can making customers around the world.
Richard Steigerwald, President of Belvac said, "Rosario's innovation and service reputation in can decoration adds a critical component to Belvac's existing capabilities in metal can forming and inspection. The addition of Rosario uniquely positions Belvac to offer can manufacturers worldwide a well-capitalized decorator and base coater choice. The result is technical, market and operational leadership in decorating systems. Belvac is the only company in the world offering this particular combination of integrated, container value enhancing solutions."
Harry van Tuijn of Rosario points out that "Rosario's history in the can making industry began in 1971 and we have earned a strong reputation for building world-class machinery. With Belvac's scale and long industry experience, Belvac is the perfect fit for us as they share our commitment to design and innovation."
According to Mr. Steigerwald, "With the addition of decorating and base coating technology to our portfolio, our customers are assured of Belvac's commitment to world-class support for their broadest possible package manufacturing needs."
Belvac is a world leader in the design and production of continuous motion rotary machinery. Belvac provides beverage, food and aerosol can makers with high-speed cupping systems, can forming, decorating, trimming, necking, base reprofiling and reforming, shaping, bottom rim coating, flanging and inspection technology. Additionally, Belvac offers Ceramic Tooling Solutions and Container Engineering. Learn more about us at www.belvac.com .
Belvac is an operating company within Dover Corporation's Refrigeration & Food Equipment Segment. Dover is a diversified global manufacturer with annual revenue exceeding $7 billion. Recognized for an entrepreneurial approach for over 60 years, Dover's team of 29,000 employees takes an ownership mindset, collaborating with customers to redefine what's possible. Headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois, Dover trades on the New York Stock Exchange under "DOV." Additional information is available at www.dovercorporation.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/belvac-acquires-rosario-can-technology-300582768.html
SOURCE Belvac Production Machinery, Inc.