January 22, 2018 / 9:00 AM / Updated 8 minutes ago European shares trade sideways, focus on M&A Reuters Staff 3 Min Read 
LONDON (Reuters) - European shares traded with little clear direction on Monday as markets focused on a flurry of M&A, with limited impact from the shutdown of the U.S. government and progress towards an end to political deadlock in Germany. 
At 0830 GMT the pan-European STOXX 600 index was flat (-0.02 percent). Germany's .GDAXI DAX was up 0.04 percent, France's .FCHI CAC-40 down 0.11 percent and the UK's FTSE .FTSE unchanged. 
French drugmaker Sanofi ( SASY.PA ) fell after the company announced a $11.6 billion takeover of U.S. haemophilia treatment specialist Bioverativ ( BIVV.O ), with some traders saying the deal looked expensive. 
Kepler Cheuvreux analysts said the deal raised a “host of questions” and wondered whether Bioverativ’s pipeline could offset pressure from a rival Roche treatment. 
Italian online luxury retailer Yoox Net-a-Porter’s ( YNAP.MI ) shares surged 25 percent, hitting a record after shareholder Richemont ( CFR.S ) moved to buy out the company. 
Ocado ( OCDO.L ) jumped 13 percent after it signed an agreement with Sobeys SOBEF.UL to develop the online grocery business at Canada’s second-largest food retailer. 
UBS ( UBSG.S ), Switzerland’s biggest bank, saw its shares fall after posting a quarterly loss, driven by a large writedown on the U.S. tax reforms. UBS still boosted its dividends and announced a new share buyback programme. 
UK betting groups were the worst performers on the STOXX 600, with William Hill ( WMH.L ) and Ladbrokes down 14 percent and 13 percent respectively, on a report that the government is set to cap maximum stakes on fixed-odds betting machines at 2 pounds. 
South African retailer Steinhoff ( SNHG.DE ) rose over 11 percent after it said it planned to sell about 7.5 billion rand ($620 million) of shares in investment firm PSG Group it scrambles to plug a liquidity gap. Reporting by Julien Ponthus; editing by Tom Pfeiffer