COLUMBUS, Ga., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Aflac Incorporated announced today changes for two key executives as part of its ongoing U.S. Operations strategy. Virgil R. Miller has been promoted to president of Aflac Group Insurance and executive vice president; chief operating officer, Aflac U.S., reporting to Teresa L. White, president of Aflac U.S. In his new role, Miller is responsible for the strategic leadership and overall direction of operations at Aflac Group, as well as operations for Aflac U.S.
Additionally, Jamie A. Lee has been promoted to senior vice president and chief service officer, Aflac U.S., reporting to Miller. In her new role, Lee is responsible for the entire customer journey of policyholders, businesses, and those who look to Aflac to help them when they need it most. This entails oversight of all service organizations within Aflac U.S. Internal Operations and the Aflac U.S. Transformation Office. Additionally, she oversees Aflac's divisions that support the onboarding and compensation of Aflac's sales producers.
Miller joined Aflac's management team in 2004 after working in leadership in the property and casualty industry. He was promoted to positions of increasing responsibility, including senior manager in Client Services; second vice president of Policy Service and the Customer Service Center; and vice president of Customer Assurance and Aflac's Transformation Office. In 2015, Miller was promoted to senior vice president of Internal Operations and later named chief administrative officer, head of Aflac Group in 2016. Most recently, he held the position of senior vice president and chief administrative officer of Aflac U.S. Miller served as a U.S. Marine and is a veteran of Operation Desert Storm. He holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Georgia College and a master's degree in business management from Wesleyan College. He serves on the board of trustees for Claflin University, the Palmetto Health Foundation Board, the 2017 Group Insurance Executive Council and the Columbia Urban League. He is a former board member of the American Red Cross and the United Way Board of Trustees.
Lee joined Aflac in 1991 as part of Aflac's Customer Call Center and has held positions of increasing responsibility in Internal Operations to include second vice president of Administrative Technology Support and Sales Administration. She also spent time in the field as a sales associate. Lee was promoted to vice president of Sales Operations in 2012 and to vice president of Transformation in 2016, where she was responsible for executing a multi-year investment to modernize Aflac's systems and deliver a new operating model. She earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Columbus State University and is also a Fellow of the Life Management Institute. She volunteers for Girls Inc. and serves on the board of directors for NeighborWorks Columbus.
Commenting on the announcements, Aflac U.S. President Teresa L. White commented: "I believe these well-deserved promotions place both Virgil and Jamie in key positions that capitalize on their talents and help prepare Aflac for the future. Both Virgil and Jamie have built successful teams with impressive records of strategic and operational accomplishments. Over the last 14 years, Virgil has proven himself to be a trusted leader who will bring to this new role a strong reputation for developing people and inspiring teams. Jamie has established a strong 26-year track record at Aflac of dedication, leadership and results. This makes her exceptionally qualified to champion the outstanding customer service our policyholders deserve and have come to expect. I look forward to both of their contributions."
ABOUT AFLAC
When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash benefits fast. For more than six decades, Aflac insurance policies have given policyholders the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the United States, Aflac is the leader in voluntary insurance sales at the worksite. Through its trailblazing One Day Pay SM initiative, Aflac U.S. can receive, process, approve and disburse payment for eligible claims in one business day. In Japan, Aflac is the leading provider of medical and cancer insurance and insures 1 in 4 households. Aflac insurance products help provide protection to more than 50 million people worldwide. For 11 consecutive years, Aflac has been recognized by Ethisphere as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies. In 2017, Fortune magazine recognized Aflac as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work for in America for the 19th consecutive year and in 2017 included Aflac on its list of Most Admired Companies for the 16th time. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac and One Day Pay SM , visit aflac.com or aflac.com/espanol .
Analyst and investor contact – David A. Young, 706.596.3264 or 800.235.2667; FAX: 706.324.6330 or dyoung@aflac.com
Media contact – Catherine H. Blades, 706.596.3014; FAX: 706.320.2288 or cblades@aflac.com
Forward-looking Information
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This report contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by Company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target", "outlook" or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy; exposure to significant interest rate risk; concentration of business in Japan; foreign currency fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate; failure to execute or implement the conversion of the Japan branch conversion to a legal subsidiary; limited availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; ability to continue to develop and implement improvements in information technology systems; governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets; interruption in telecommunication, informatio