PHOENIX, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pinnacle, one of the nation’s leading multifamily management firms, announces that Alex Sampson has joined the company as a vice president to oversee operations in Arizona and to guide the company’s expansion efforts across the state. Based in Phoenix, he reports to Regional Vice President Debra Kopolow.
Alex Sampson, Pinnacle Vice President in Arizona
“Alex was identified as a leader who is not only strong operationally but who will also be able to grow Pinnacle’s third party platform across the state of Arizona,” says Kopolow. “He is a true leader and we are confident that he will help us reach our goals with focused intent.”
Sampson comes to Pinnacle with over seven years of experience, most recently from Alliance Residential Company where he was responsible for business development for a seven-state region. There, he worked closely with clients and equity partners to identify new management opportunities and coordinate all aspects of their acquisition process. Prior to Alliance, he held multifamily investment roles at both Berkadia and Colliers International.
Sampson’s background includes assisting clients with acquisitions, dispositions and ground-up developments. In addition, he brings intense knowledge of multifamily operations, underwriting, market assessment and value creation. In his new role he will assist with 16 assets in Arizona and guide the efforts of 75 team members.
About Pinnacle Property Management Services, LLC
Pinnacle Property Management Services, LLC, (“Pinnacle”) is a privately held national real estate provider specializing in third party management of multifamily residential communities. As one of the nation’s preferred third-party managers, Pinnacle’s portfolio includes over 165,000 residential units and 2.75 million square feet of commercial assets. With the Corporate headquarters located in Dallas, Texas, Pinnacle has more than 4,100 employees located in 30 states. For more information, visit www.pinnacleliving.com .
MEDIA CONTACT
Suzi Smith
(214) 891-7831
ssmith@pinnacleliving.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c1b40330-995e-4af4-8cbe-4259fb630920
Source: US-Pinnacle Property