Business leader with decades of experience at Proofpoint, Hitachi Data Systems, NetApp and Symantec joins A10 Networks to lead global sales team
SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- A10 Networks (NYSE: ATEN), a Secure Application Services™ company, today announced the appointment of Chris White to lead the company’s global sales organization as executive vice president, worldwide sales, effective Jan. 2, 2018.
“Chris brings extensive global sales and channel leadership experience to A10, and his cybersecurity background will help the company in its mission to protect businesses and their critical applications from cyber threats through deep intelligence and automation in any environment,” said Lee Chen, president and chief executive officer of A10 Networks.
In the role as executive vice president reporting to the CEO, White is responsible for managing and growing A10's global sales organization, sales operations and business development. White’s charter is to drive A10’s global sales and channel strategy.
White is known for being a versatile leader and strategic problem solver during his long career in the cybersecurity industry as an accomplished global sales executive. Before joining A10 Networks, White was vice president of sales at Proofpoint, a leading security-as-a-service provider, where he led the Strategic Accounts and Archive Sales Teams in the US market. Prior to Proofpoint, White held senior leadership positions at Hitachi Data Systems, NetApp, Symantec and ADP.
About A10 Networks
A10 Networks (NYSE: ATEN) is a Secure Application Services™ company, providing a range of high-performance application networking solutions that help organizations ensure that their data center applications and networks remain highly available, accelerated and secure. Founded in 2004, A10 Networks is based in San Jose, Calif., and serves customers globally with offices worldwide. For more information, visit: www.a10networks.com and @A10Networks.
The A10 logo, A10 Networks, A10 Thunder and Secure Application Services are trademarks or registered trademarks of A10 Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006515/en/
Media and Analyst Contact
A10 Networks
Ben Stricker
bstricker@a10networks.com
Source: A10 Networks