NEW YORK, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Douglas Cowieson and William (Bill) Lamoreaux are now working with PA Consulting Group's healthcare team as strategic advisors. Mr. Cowieson and Mr. Lamoreaux bring key healthcare insurance industry expertise to support PA's market strategies and to further enhance the support and advice we provide our clients.
Mr. Cowieson has over 30 years of experience in the health insurance space. He most recently served as the SVP of Operations at EmblemHealth, where he was responsible for all back office operations within the company, including leadership of Claim, Call, Medical Management, Billing & Enrollment, Operational Excellence and Business Transformation. Mr. Cowieson has a background in re-engineering business operations within the US as well as international business, having lived and worked in the Middle East, Europe, and Asia.
Mr. Lamoreaux has over 30 years of experience in the healthcare sector. He most recently served as Chief Operations Officer at EmblemHealth and was responsible for leading for profit and not for profit health plans. He brings demonstrated leadership in health care delivery, large scale operations, and change management. In his career, he has implemented innovative technology and administrative cost containment approaches, developed care coordination models that benefit both payer and provider, and established retail health care models.
Chris Steel, Global Head of Healthcare at PA Consulting Group, says: "We are excited to be working with Douglas and Bill. They bring strong healthcare and insurance industry knowledge that will benefit PA as we further develop the services we offer our healthcare clients in operational excellence, customer engagement, and healthcare analytics."
About PA Consulting Group
A firm of over 2,600 people, we operate globally from offices across the Americas, Europe, the Nordics, the Gulf and Asia Pacific. We are experts in consumer and manufacturing, defense and security, energy and utilities, financial services, government, healthcare, life sciences, and transport, travel and logistics. Our deep industry knowledge together with skills in management consulting, technology and innovation allows us to challenge conventional thinking and deliver exceptional results that have a lasting impact on businesses, governments and communities worldwide. Our clients choose us because we don't just believe in making a difference. We believe in making the difference. For more information about PA Consulting Group, visit www.paconsulting.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/douglas-cowieson-and-william-lamoreaux-named-strategic-advisors-to-pa-consulting-group-300590249.html
SOURCE PA Consulting Group