ORANGEBURG, N.Y., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- PDI, a leader in infection prevention products and solutions, announces the appointment of Tom McCurdy as Senior Vice President and General Manager for its healthcare division and promotes Esperanza "Espie" Carrion, the former Vice President of Marketing for Sani Professional, the food safety division of PDI, to Vice President and General Manager of Sani Professional. Tom and Espie join Cheryl Mallon, Vice President and General Manager, PDI Contract Manufacturing, in these important roles driving the company's growth and further elevating it as a leader in the fight against preventable infections.
Tom has a proven track record as a people-centered and results-driven senior executive and will lead the development and the execution of the growth strategy for PDI Healthcare. In his most recent role as President of Global Plasma for Haemonetics Corporation, Tom achieved impressive revenue and profit growth by implementing a new-product-technology and customer-value-centered strategy founded in innovation, clinical value, and commercial excellence. Earlier in his career, Tom spent 18 years at Boston Scientific Corporation holding multiple roles of increasing commercial leadership responsibility and contributing to the impressive growth.
Espie has successfully led the Sani Professional marketing organization for the last six years. She is an accomplished leader with diverse consumer and business-to-business experience. In this new role, Espie will lead Sani Professional's plan execution as well as crafting its future growth strategy. Prior to joining PDI, Esperanza held roles of increasing responsibility with top Fortune 100 companies such as The Colgate-Palmolive Company, The Coca-Cola Company, and Kraft Foods International.
"We are thrilled to make these new leadership appointments, adding depth, talent, and experience to PDI's senior team," said Kent Davies, President and Chief Operating Officer, PDI. "PDI has become an infection prevention leader through our market leading products, dedicated associates, and long-term commitment to eliminating pathogenic risks in health care, food service, and other settings. With strong general managers leading each of our three market and customer facing businesses, we are well positioned to continue our legacy of growth and innovation."
About PDI
PDI helps reduce preventable infections, control associated costs and, ultimately, save lives by delivering a broad range of evidence-based, market leading environmental hygiene, patientcare and food safety solutions in the community and healthcare environments. PDII has three divisions, PDI Contract Manufacturing, Sani Professional® and PDI Healthcare. Visit wearepdi.com .
Contacts:
Shawn Smith, PDI
845-792-5220
shawn.smith@pdipdi.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pdi-strengthens-team-with-new-senior-leadership-appointments-300583059.html
SOURCE PDI