CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Antares Capital (“Antares”) announced today it is serving as administrative agent and lead left arranger on a senior secured credit facility to support the acquisition of Encore Composite Structures (“Encore”) by AC&A Enterprises Holdings LLC (“AC&A”), an AE Industrial Partners, LLC portfolio company.
Headquartered in Brea, CA, Encore is a leading designer and manufacturer of highly engineered components that utilize composite and other lightweight materials for commercial and military aerospace applications.
“We have built a great relationship with Antares through prior transactions,” said Kirk Konert, principal at AE Industrial Partners. “With a flexible approach and certainty of execution they continue to deliver the financing we need for these strategic acquisitions.”
“We were pleased to work with AE Industrial and AC&A on this transaction,” said Kevin Fitzgerald, senior vice president with Antares. “This acquisition expands AE Industrial Partners’ expertise and we look forward to watching the progress of the combined company.”
About AE Industrial Partners
AE Industrial Partners is a leading private equity firm specializing in control-oriented investments in aerospace, power generation, and specialty industrial businesses. AEI invests in market-leading companies that can benefit from its deep operating experience, industry knowledge, and relationships. Learn more at www.aeroequity.com .
About Antares
Antares Capital is a credit manager and leading provider of financing solutions for middle-market, private equity-backed transactions. Offices are located in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Norwalk and Toronto. Antares issued more than $18 billion in financing during 2016, and was named 2017 Lender of the Year by ACG NY and 2015 Dealmakers of the Year by Mergers & Acquisitions. Visit us at www.antares.com or follow Antares Capital on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/antarescapital . Antares Capital is a subsidiary of Antares Holdings LP.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005599/en/
Antares Capital
Carol Ann Wharton, 475-266-8053
carolann.wharton@antares.com
Source: Antares Capital