NEW YORK, WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on UBSI, BKU, CFG, and SNV which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . Under review on WallStEquities.com this morning are: United Bankshares Inc. (NASDAQ: UBSI), BankUnited Inc. (NYSE: BKU), Citizens Financial Group Inc. (NYSE: CFG), and Synovus Financial Corp. (NYSE: SNV). These stocks are part of the Regional Mid-Atlantic Banks industry, which includes financial services companies that are based in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below. www.wallstequities.com/registration
United Bankshares
Last Friday, Charleston, West Virginia headquartered United Bankshares Inc.'s stock declined slightly by 0.83%, to close the day at $35.90. A total volume of 504,134 shares was traded. The Company's shares have advanced 0.70% in the last month. The stock is trading 0.44% above its 50-day moving average. Additionally, shares of United Bankshares, which operates as the bank holding company for United Bank and United Bank that provide commercial and retail banking services and products primarily in the US, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 50.20. Get the full research report on UBSI for free by clicking below at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=UBSI
BankUnited
Shares in Miami Lakes, Florida headquartered BankUnited Inc. rose slightly by 0.72%, finishing Friday's session at $41.90. The stock recorded a trading volume of 1.69 million shares, which was above its three months average volume of 1.05 million shares. The Company's shares have gained 4.02% in the last month, 20.44% over the previous three months, and 9.29% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 6.14% and 18.39%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of BankUnited, which operates as the bank holding company for BankUnited, National Association that provides a range of banking services to small and medium sized businesses, and individual and corporate customers in the US, have an RSI of 56.72.
On January 24 th , 2018, research firm Barclays reiterated its 'Overweight' rating on the Company's stock with an increase of the target price from $46 a share to $49 a share.
On January 24 th , 2018, BankUnited announced that Jay D. Richards will join the Company on January 29 th , 2018, as its Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. Richards will report to Jack Leonard, current Chief Credit Officer, who will become Vice Chairman, Credit Risk Management. Free research on BKU can be accessed at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=BKU
Citizens Financial Group
Providence, Rhode Island headquartered Citizens Financial Group Inc.'s stock finished 0.60% higher at $46.95 last Friday at the close. A total volume of 3.98 million shares was traded. The Company's shares have advanced 10.42% in the past month, 23.46% in the previous three months, and 25.07% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 11.53% and 25.80%, respectively. Additionally, shares of Citizens Financial, which operates as the bank holding company for Citizens Bank, N.A. and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, which provide consumer and commercial banking services in the US, have an RSI of 71.34.
On January 02 nd , 2018, research firm Barclays reiterated its 'Equal Weight' rating on the Company's stock with an increase of the target price from $41 a share to $49 a share.
On January 19 th , 2018, Citizens Financial announced that its Board of Directors declared a 22% increase in the Company's quarterly cash dividend to $0.22 per common share. The dividend is payable on February 15 th , 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 01 st , 2018. Visit WallStEquities.com now and sign up for the free research on CFG at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CFG
Synovus Financial
Columbus, Georgia headquartered Synovus Financial Corp.'s shares ended the session 0.12% lower at $51.15. The stock recorded a trading volume of 1.00 million shares, which was above its three months average volume of 775,960 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 5.33% in the last month, 9.72% over the previous three months, and 19.54% over the past year. The stock is trading 4.87% above its 50-day moving average and 14.04% above its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Synovus Financial, which operates as the bank holding company for Synovus Bank that provides various financial products and services, have an RSI of 63.52.
On January 02 nd , 2018, research firm Barclays reiterated its 'Equal Weight' rating on the Company's stock with an increase of the target price from $49 a share to $53 a share.
On January 03 rd , 2018, Synovus Financial's Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $0.4921875 per share on the Company's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C. The dividend will be payable on February 01 st , 2018, to shareholders of record as of January 15 th , 2018. The free technical report on SNV is available at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=SNV
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
 : releases/pre-market-technical-scan-on-banking-equities----united-bankshares-bankunited-citizens-financial-and-synovus-financial-300589370.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities