SAN DIEGO, Jan. Ashford University Health Information Management Program Chair Dr. Karen Bakuzonis, PhD, MS, RHIA, CPHIA, has been appointed to the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) Board of Directors. CAHIIM is the accrediting organization for degree-granting programs in health informatics and health information management.
"Dr. Bakuzonis' appointment to the CAHIIM board, and her longtime member status, are testament to the quality of the faculty in Ashford's Health Information Management program, as well as adherence of the curriculum to industry best practice," said Dr. Laura Sliwinski, executive dean, College of Health, Human Services, and Science. "We are honored to have someone of this caliber leading this exciting program."
Health information management is the practice of acquiring, analyzing, and protecting the medical information that's vital to providing patient care and providing the data that health professionals need in order to provide quality care. Ashford's program blends the disciplines of management, finance, information technology, medicine, and law. Graduates may seek a wide variety of roles in health care that don't require direct patient interaction but still have a positive impact on patient outcomes.
For more information about the Health Information Management Program, please visit https://www.ashford.edu/online-degrees/health-care/bachelor-of-science-health-information-management .
About Ashford University
Where heritage meets innovation – that's Ashford University . At Ashford, students discover relevant degree programs, innovative technology, and cherished tradition. Ashford offers associates, bachelor's, and master's degree programs online, allowing students to balance life by providing the flexibility to do school work anywhere, anytime. For more information, please visit www.ashford.edu , www.facebook.com/ashforduniversity , www.twitter.com/AshfordU , or call Lauren Coartney at 858.513.9240 x11636.
Contact: Lauren Coartney
858.513.9240 x11636 - lauren.coartney@ashford.edu
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ashford-university-health-information-management-program-chair-dr-karen-bakuzonis-appointed-to-commission-on-accreditation-for-health-informatics-and-information-management-education-board-300581023.html
SOURCE Ashford University