digiTICKET Accelerates the City’s Efforts to Eliminate Redundancy and Save Costs by Combining Traffic and Municipal Court Ticketing Processes
TULSA, Okla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Saltus Technologies, provider of the industry-leading digiTICKET ® eCitation solution, announced today that the City of New Orleans, Louisiana has deployed digiTICKET to combine and modernize its traffic and municipal citation processes. By enabling officers to electronically capture defendant and violation information the solution significantly reduces errors and manual data entry costs.
Although the deployment was originally intended to handle only traffic tickets, city officials requested that Saltus expand the project’s scope to include municipal summons and affidavits. The consolidation of traffic and municipal summons, and the elimination of manual data entry will yield significant productivity gains.
“Implementing the electronic ticket program is going to pay tremendous dividends in terms of manpower for our officers,” said Chief Michael S. Harrison of the NOPD. “This program reduces the time our men and women spend on the ticketing process, and enables us to put more of our focus and our manpower on keeping people safe.”
New Orleans represents one of Saltus’ largest digiTICKET Solution as a Service (dSaaS) deployments, providing all hardware, software, and support for a standard fee with no upfront costs. Included in the agreement are digiTICKET licenses for approximately 300 existing mobile desktop computers / laptops and 12 new ruggedized handheld devices. The solution also includes interfaces to the City’s court case management software. digiTICKET has developed a reputation as a very easy-to-use and reliable solution. Using handhelds, laptops and tablets, Saltus users process over 75,000 citations and warnings each month for over 200 agencies in 17 states. Operating in Louisiana for over five years, digiTICKET has proven to be a key contributing factor in increasing revenue by reducing errors, improving productivity and eliminating manual processes. Agencies have the choice to either purchase the system or acquire it using the dSaaS procurement option.
About Saltus Technologies
Saltus Technologies markets mobile electronic ticketing solutions to public safety, government agencies and private industry. Electronic ticketing can create an attractive return on investment when replacing the process of handwritten tickets. For more information, visit www.saltustechnologies.com .
© Copyright 2018, Saltus Technologies.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005596/en/
Saltus Technologies
Shawn Sicking, 981-392-3904
shawns@saltustech.com
Source: Saltus Technologies