BlackRock chief Larry Fink told CNBC on Friday that most people saving for retirement should have the bulk of their portfolios in stocks rather than bonds.
Investors even as old as 50 should mostly be in the stock market, he said. That advice runs counter to conventional asset allocation wisdom that long-term investors should have a portion of their portfolios in bonds.
Even with stocks at around record highs, people who buy into the market now will do better in equities than bonds over time, Fink said. BlackRock is still "quiet bullish" on equities at these levels, he added.
Those comments about stocks versus bonds echo what billionaire investor Warren Buffett told CNBC earlier this week.
The Berkshire Hathaway chairman and CEO reiterated what he's said for years: Don't buy bonds, stock are the way to go.
Despite that advice, investors did indeed pour into bonds in the latest quarter, Fink said.
He believes that's happening because people are not good at market timing and therefore seek the safety of bonds.
show chapters BlackRock's Larry Fink: Surprised by huge inflows in bonds 9 Hours Ago | 02:37 Fink, BlackRock's chairman and CEO, also said the Republican tax overhaul law is largely going to help Americans , and should add about 1 percent annually to economic growth, at least in the first few years.
Meanwhile, the U.S. corporate tax cut is a problem for Mexico because the rate is now lower in America, Fink said. Companies that had domiciled in Mexico for tax reasons are going to make their new tax homes in the U.S., he predicts.
He appeared Friday on "Squawk Box" shortly after BlackRock, the largest asset manager in the world, reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings and revenue.
Total assets under management stand at nearly $6.3 trillion, slightly ahead of estimates.
Morning Squawk: CNBC's before the bell news roundup Sign up to get Morning Squawk each weekday
Job Industry Advertising/Marketing Automotive Communications/PR Construction/Manufacturing Education Finance/Banking/Insurance Legal Media/Entertainment Medical/Health Care Mining/Oil/Gas/Utilities Gov't/Non-Profit Real Estate Retail Technology/IT Transportation/Shipping Travel/Hospitality Other Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about about our products and service. Privacy Policy . Submit Please enter a valid email address Disclaimer