BETHESDA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- LaSalle Hotel Properties (NYSE: LHO) today announced it will report financial results for the fourth quarter 2017 on Tuesday, February 20, 2018 after the market closes. The Company will conduct its quarterly conference call on Wednesday, February 21, 2018 at 11:00 AM eastern time.
To participate in the conference call, please follow the steps listed below:
On February 21, 2018, dial (800) 406-5345 approximately ten minutes before the call begins (10:50 AM eastern time); Tell the operator that you are calling for LaSalle Hotel Properties’ Fourth Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call; State your full name and company affiliation and you will be connected to the call.
A live webcast of the earnings conference call will also be available through the Company’s website. To access, log on to www.lasallehotels.com ten minutes prior to the call. A replay of the conference call webcast will be archived and available online through the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website.
About LaSalle Hotel Properties
LaSalle Hotel Properties is a leading multi-operator real estate investment trust. The Company owns 41 properties, which are upscale, full-service hotels, totaling approximately 10,400 guest rooms in 11 markets in seven states and the District of Columbia. The Company focuses on owning, redeveloping and repositioning upscale, full-service hotels located in urban, resort and convention markets. LaSalle Hotel Properties seeks to grow through strategic relationships with premier lodging groups, including Hilton Hotels Corporation, Marriott International, Outrigger Lodging Services, Noble House Hotels & Resorts, Hyatt Hotels Corporation, Benchmark Hospitality, Two Roads Hospitality, Davidson Hotel Company, Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC, Accor, HEI Hotels & Resorts, JRK Hotel Group, Inc., Viceroy Hotel Group, Highgate Hotels, Access Hotels & Resorts, and Provenance Hotels.
For additional information or to receive press releases via e-mail, please visit our website at www.lasallehotels.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110006111/en/
LaSalle Hotel Properties
Kenneth G. Fuller or Max D. Leinweber, 301-941-1500
Source: LaSalle Hotel Properties