Industry veteran will focus on Utility Planning Services, Grid Edge Analytics, Dynamic Pricing, and Energy Efficiency Programs
WALTHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Cadmus Group, LLC (Cadmus) announced today that it has appointed Neil Pickard as a Vice President and member of its executive team. Pickard will focus on providing utility systems planning and strategy services.
“Neil is uniquely qualified for his role within Cadmus, as a consultant with hands-on experience in utility planning and operations,” said Terry Fry, Senior Vice President, Cadmus. “This complementary combination will provide an advantage for Cadmus clients who will benefit from Neil’s broad, cross-discipline perspective. I am particularly excited about his ability to bring our grid edge analytics not only into customer initiatives but also into utility operations and pricing.”
Pickard has more than 20 years of experience in Energy, including 15 years at Georgia Power in multiple, high-level, trusted positions. He has provided a range of energy-specific services including overseeing energy efficiency planning processes, implementing certified energy efficiency programs, and evaluating ratepayer-funded customer initiatives. He has led multiple Cost of Service Studies and has participated in multiple energy efficiency process stakeholder groups at Southern Company. Pickard has served as both vice president and president of the Southeastern Chapter of the Association of Energy Services Professionals (AESP). He holds an MBA from Georgia State University, and a BS in Biology from the University of Georgia.
Cadmus energy services leverages in-depth understanding of the energy market, evaluation protocols, and analytical methods to help clients stay ahead of rapidly evolving technologies and regulatory policies. Our core areas of expertise include evaluation and research, energy resource integration, energy programs, advanced analytics, high-performance buildings, business resilience, and marketing and outreach. To learn more, please visit www.cadmusgroup.com/energy.
About Cadmus
Cadmus provides professional consulting services that help clients achieve their goals and create social and economic value today and for future generations. By applying exceptional technical expertise and a highly collaborative approach, we deliver customized solutions to our clients that address complex challenges in energy, homeland security and all-hazard preparedness, climate, the natural and built environments, sustainable transportation, public health, and international development. Cadmus’ more than 600 consultants serve government, commercial, and nongovernmental organization around the world.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005721/en/
The Cadmus Group, LLC
Helle Huxley, (240) 204-6200
helle.huxley@cadmusgroup.com
Source: The Cadmus Group, LLC