Investment Community Teleconference Set for February 13, 2018 at 8 a.m. ET
TORONTO, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - Hydro One Limited (TSX: H), the largest electric transmission and distribution utility in Ontario, plans to release its fourth quarter financial results the morning of February 13, 2018 before North American financial markets open. A summary of the results will be distributed by newswire and the complete MD&A and financial statements will be posted at www.hydroone.com/investors and www.sedar.com .
Hydro One's management will host a teleconference with the investment community at 8 a.m. ET that same morning to discuss the results and outlook. Those wishing to listen to the teleconference should access the live webcast on the Investor Relations Events and Presentations section of Hydro One's website at www.hydroone.com/investors . A rebroadcast of the teleconference will be available following the call at the same link.
Those members of the North American financial community wanting to ask questions during the call should dial 1.855.226.6282 at least ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time and request Hydro One's fourth quarter results teleconference, conference ID 9187347 (international callers should dial 1.440.996.5208). Other interested parties and media are welcome to participate on a listen-only basis.
About the Company:
We are Ontario's largest electricity transmission and distribution provider with more than 1.3 million valued customers, $25 billion in assets and annual revenues of over $6.5 billion. Our team of 5,500 skilled and dedicated employees proudly and safely serves suburban, rural and remote communities across Ontario through our 30,000 circuit km high-voltage transmission and 123,000 circuit km primary distribution networks. Hydro One is committed to the communities we serve, and has been rated as the top utility in Canada for its corporate citizenship, sustainability, and diversity initiatives. We are one of only five utility companies in Canada to achieve the Sustainable Electricity Company designation from the Canadian Electricity Association. We also provide advanced broadband telecommunications services on a wholesale basis utilizing our extensive fibre optic network. Hydro One Limited's common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: H). For more information about everything Hydro One, please visit www.hydroone.com .
SOURCE Hydro One Limited