CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- AOBiome Therapeutics ("AOBiome") today announced that Todd Krueger has been named Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Krueger retains his current role as President, a position he has held since March 2016. AOBiome is a clinical-stage life sciences company advancing patented microbiome-targeted therapies for systemic and local inflammatory conditions.
"We are very pleased to have Todd take on the role of CEO at this pivotal time for AOBiome," said AOBiome's Chairman and Co-Founder Jamie Heywood. "The company is advancing multiple mid-clinical stage programs based on its first-in-class Ammonia Oxidizing Bacteria (AOB) platform, which we expect will have key data readouts over the course of the next year and into 2019. Todd's exemplary track record and his unique expertise across healthcare strategy, business development, and operations will be essential in guiding the company through its next stage of development."
Mr. Krueger joined AOBiome in May 2015 as Chief Business Officer, prior to which he served as Head of Commercial Strategy and Operations for the Genomics Platform at the Broad Institute. Previously, Mr. Krueger held senior positions at Life Technologies, including Head of Business Development for Genetic Systems and Head of Business Development for Molecular Medicine, focused on the company's companion diagnostics business. He has also been involved in the founding of several biotechnology companies, including Gynesonics, Nodality, and Anestis Therapeutics. In 1999, he co-founded Fluidigm Corporation, a publicly traded life sciences technologies and tools company, where he served as CFO and Vice President of Business Development. Mr. Krueger is a member of the Board of Directors for multiple companies, including General Automation Lab Technologies (GALT), a microbiome tools company. He started his career as a consultant for Bain and Company in Boston. Mr. Krueger graduated Highest Distinction from Northwestern University with a degree in Economics and earned his MBA from the Kellogg School of Management.
"It has been a privilege to work closely with the accomplished team at AOBiome as we have advanced and expanded our development pipeline targeting diverse inflammatory conditions," said Todd Krueger, President of AOBiome. "In 2018 and beyond we will continue to focus on developing innovative clinical programs and applying our world-class scientific platform to address areas of compelling unmet patient needs."
About AOBiome Therapeutics
AOBiome Therapeutics is a Boston-based life sciences company focused on transforming human health by developing microbiome-targeted therapies for local, nasal and systemic inflammatory conditions. Founded in 2013 by PatientsLikeMe founder Jamie Heywood and MIT Chemical Engineer David Whitlock, AOBiome is advancing a pipeline of multiple, clinical-stage therapeutic candidates. The company's portfolio includes three clinical-stage programs, a Phase 2b study to treat patients with acne vulgaris, a Phase 2 trial to reduce elevated blood pressure, and a Phase 1b/2a clinical trial in allergic rhinitis, as well as earlier-stage preclinical programs targeting diverse inflammatory indications. Learn more at AOBiome.com .
Contacts:
For Media Inquiries:
Justin Jackson
212-213-0006, ext. 327
jjackson@burnsmc.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aobiome-therapeutics-appoints-todd-krueger-as-chief-executive-officer-300577206.html
SOURCE AOBiome Therapeutics