Oishi to lead Collective Medical’s customer success teams as the company’s care collaboration network expands to an anticipated total of 24 states in 2018
SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Collective Medical , delivering the nation’s largest network for care collaboration, today announced the appointment of Nicole Oishi as head of success. In this role, Oishi will leverage her experience as both a clinician and a healthcare executive to lead Collective Medical’s customer success teams. As Collective Medical continues to expand its real-time, risk-adjusted event notification and care collaboration platform across all points of care—including emergent, in-patient, post-acute, mental and behavioral, and ambulatory settings—its leadership is committed to continuing to exceed customer expectations and deliver superior support and education.
Oishi joins Collective Medical from Cambia Health Solutions, where she served as vice president of clinical services for Regence, a national BCBSA health plan serving two million members across Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Utah. While in that role, Oishi was responsible for a team of 450 employees covering utilization management, case and care management, quality management—which included leading Regence to full NCQA Accreditation—pre- and post-service clinical review, clinical analytics, reporting and clinical systems.
Oishi is a former user of Collective Medical’s network and platform. Under Oishi’s leadership, Regence partnered with Collective Medical and transformed how clinical teams supported the organization’s sickest and highest-risk members. Additionally, the use of Collective Medical’s platform allowed the organization to dramatically improve the utilization and case management processes which meant better member outcomes and significantly decreased administrative waste.
“We’ll bring at least 10 new states onto the Collective Medical network in 2018,” says Chris Klomp, CEO of Collective Medical. “As we scale across nearly 50 percent of the country in the next 12 months, we’re grateful to have Nicole and value her clinical expertise as a healthcare executive and former user of our platform.”
Collective Medical’s technology and network is used across all healthcare settings and is proven to reduce avoidable hospital readmissions, improve care transitions, and eliminate unnecessary risk and friction from care delivery. For one behavioral health provider, use of the platform meant that 99 percent of patients who used the ED or were hospitalized received follow-up care within seven days. For a large integrated delivery network, high-utilizer ED visits were reduced by 49 percent over a three-year period.
Prior to her role as VP of clinical services with Cambia, Oishi served as the general manager for Regence’s ASO Service Center, where she led an integrated 550-person team which provided health plan services to 750,000 self-insured members representing over 150 self-insured employer groups. During Oishi’s tenure serving as general manager her customer base grew by 250 percent with a retention rate of more than 90 percent. Her experience also includes roles at the Washington State Health Care Authority as the administrator purchasing healthcare for the 300,000 Washington employees, retirees and their dependents, and leading large physician practices for the University of Washington and Pediatric Associates. She has also served as a nurse in various settings, including skilled nursing and home health.
“I was introduced to Collective Medical initially while working at the Washington Health Care Authority, but it wasn’t until my role at Cambia that I truly learned the impact Collective Medical’s platform has on patient care,” says Oishi. “Against the backdrop of dozens of population health and ENS companies that claimed their solutions improved care and outcomes, Collective Medical was the only one that delivered on that promise.” Oishi continues, “I am both humbled and honored to join this amazing organization and fulfill my 30-year passion for improving peoples’ health.”
Collective Medical is endorsed as a best practice for emergency medicine by the American College of Emergency Physicians. The company has been recognized by Inc. Magazine and by the MountainWest Capital Network as one of Utah’s fastest growing companies. The company recently announced a $47.5 million investment led by Kleiner Perkins that will fuel the network’s nationwide expansion.
Learn more about Collective Medical’s impact at www.collectivemedical.com .
ABOUT COLLECTIVE MEDICAL
Collective Medical empowers care teams to improve patient outcomes by closing the communication gaps that undermine patient care. With a nationwide network engaged with every national health plan in the country, hundreds of hospitals and health systems and tens of thousands of providers, Collective Medical’s system-agnostic platform is trusted by care teams to identify at-risk and complex patients and facilitate actionable collaboration to make better care decisions and improve outcomes. Based in Salt Lake City, Collective Medical is proven to streamline transitions of care, improve coordination across diverse care teams, and reduce medically unnecessary hospital admissions. Learn more at www.collectivemedical.com and Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005112/en/
For Collective Medical
Kat McDavitt, 610-392-4726
katmcdavitt@innsena.com
Source: Collective Medical