Recognized science and technology expert across government and industry
HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Peraton has announced the appointment of Dr. Reginald Brothers as executive vice president and Chief Technology Officer, effective February 19, 2018.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005310/en/
Peraton Names Former DHS Under Secretary Reginald Brothers as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (Photo: Business Wire)
As Chief Technology Officer, Brothers will lead a new organization responsible for strategic planning, technology solutions, business development, and mergers and acquisitions (M&A) for the company.
Most recently, Brothers was a principal with The Chertoff Group, a premier global advisory firm focused on security and risk management. Prior to that role, he served as Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, where he was responsible for a science and technology portfolio that included basic and applied research, development, demonstration, testing and evaluation with the purpose of helping DHS operational elements and the nation’s first responders achieve their mission objectives.
From 2011 to 2014, he served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Research, Department of Defense, where he was responsible for policy and oversight of the Department’s science and technology programs and laboratories. Earlier in his career, Brothers held senior technology leadership roles in the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the Communications and Networking business area at BAE Systems.
“Reggie brings a truly unique perspective to Peraton,” said Stu Shea, Peraton CEO. “From his successful career in government and the private sector, he possesses a deep understanding of the mission and technology requirements of our DoD and homeland security customers. We will look to Reggie to further strengthen, differentiate, and align Peraton’s technology development, customer engagement, and M&A activities across the markets we serve.”
He earned a B.S. in electrical engineering from Tufts University, an M.S. in electrical engineering from Southern Methodist University, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
About Peraton
Peraton provides innovative, reliable solutions to the nation’s most sensitive and mission-critical programs and systems. Peraton has significant experience providing highly differentiated space, intelligence, cyber/SIGINT, defense, homeland security, electronic warfare and secure communications solutions, and has become a trusted partner on missions that are critical to the security priorities of the United States. Capabilities include complex software and technology services and solutions, as well as end-to-end mission operations capabilities, including software systems development, offensive and defense cyber operations, modeling & simulation, mission management, and Quick Reaction Capabilities (QRC) / Research & Development. The company is headquartered in Herndon, VA, with approximately 3,500 employees across the U.S. and Canada.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005310/en/
Peraton
Jaime Orlando, 703-668-6443
jorlan01@peraton.com
Source: Peraton