JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Black Knight, Inc. (NYSE:BKI), a leading provider of software, data and analytics solutions to the mortgage and consumer loan, real estate and capital markets verticals, will release fourth quarter and full-year 2017 earnings after the close of regular market trading on February 7, 2018. A conference call to discuss its results will follow at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time that same day.
Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through Black Knight’s Investor Relations website at http://investor.bkfs.com . Those wishing to participate via the telephone may dial in at 877-407-4018 (USA) or 201-689-8471 (International). The conference call replay will be available via webcast through Black Knight’s Investor Relations website at http://investor.bkfs.com . The telephone replay will be available from 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time on February 7, 2018, through February 14, 2018, by dialing 844-512-2921 (USA) or 412-317-6671 (International). The replay passcode will be 13674141.
About Black Knight
Black Knight (NYSE:BKI) is a leading provider of integrated software, data and analytics solutions that facilitate and automate many of the business processes across the homeownership lifecycle.
Black Knight is committed to being a premier business partner that clients rely on to achieve their strategic goals, realize greater success and better serve their customers by delivering best-in-class software, services and insights with a relentless commitment to excellence, innovation, integrity and leadership. on Black Knight, please visit www.blackknightinc.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding expectations, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on Black Knight management’s beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, them. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future financial and operating results and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. Black Knight undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: security breaches against our information systems; our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our customers; changes to the laws, rules and regulations that affect our and our customers’ businesses; our ability to adapt our services to changes in technology or the marketplace; the effect of any potential defects, development delays, installation difficulties or system failures on our business and reputation; changes in general economic, business, regulatory and political conditions, particularly as they affect the mortgage industry; risks associated with the availability of data; the effects of our substantial leverage on our ability to make acquisitions and invest in our business; our ability to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” “Risk Factors” and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Information for Investors:
Bryan Hipsher
Black Knight
904.854.3219
bryan.hipsher@bkfs.com
Information for Media:
Michelle Kersch
Black Knight
904.854.5043
michelle.kersch@bkfs.com
Source:Black Knight, Inc.