NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- John Crant, veteran of the global for-hire vehicle service industry joins leading taxi technology firm Kaptyn as Vice President.
Bringing 17 years of taxi expertise, John adds a wealth of experience to an already established team, as well as a passion and professional commitment to providing industry-leading products and services to taxi business operators nationwide.
Prior to joining the Kaptyn team, John served various roles at both Creative Mobile Technologies and Mobile Knowledge focused on the day-to-day challenges of integrating modern dispatch and payment technologies into traditional taxi operations, as well as assisting customers in their technology deployment decision-making process.
Before his taxi industry tenure, John acted as an international sales and marketing manager for Intermap Technologies Inc. in their airborne synthetic aperture radar mapping division, and was Asia Pacific Sales manager for PCI Geomatics, a Geographic Information System and Satellite Image Analysis software developer.
"I am impressed with Kaptyn's vision for revolutionizing the regulated taxi industry through lateral thinking and innovation," said John Crant. "The global taxi industry has experienced significant challenges in recent years and I believe a fresh approach is required to ensure this industry remains profitable and relevant. I am excited to join the Kaptyn team to help realize that vision for the benefit of taxi business operators everywhere."
John joins the taxi technology outfit at an opportune time. Having recently closed a Series A funding round, Kaptyn is positioned to actively expand their operations to the top 100 cities in North America.
Andrew Meyers CEO, Kaptyn added, "We are thrilled to add John to an already experienced team of taxi industry experts. As we execute our strategic vision of evolving the taxi industry to compete in the disrupted environment, John's knowledge and experience is a real asset to the company. It's great to have him on board."
About Kaptyn
Kaptyn is an innovative taxi platform integrator that connects fleets, drivers and regulators to a robust marketplace of industry leading taxi solutions. Creating additional revenue streams, streamlining processes and bridging the gap between legacy infrastructure and new age mobile demand aggregators.
http://www.kaptyn.com/
Media Contact
Chris Hall
Head of Marketing, Kaptyn Inc.
chall@kaptyn.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kaptyn-inc-bolsters-team-with-global-taxi-service-expert-300579144.html
SOURCE Kaptyn