MELBOURNE, Australia, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Genetic Technologies Limited (ASX:GTG) (Nasdaq:GENE) (“Company”), advises that Dr Malcolm R. Brandon and Mr Grahame Leonard, AM have resigned as directors of the Company with effect from 29 January, 2018.
Resolution 1, the removal of Dr Malcom R. Brandon as Director, and resolution 2, the removal of Mr Grahame Leonard, AM, as Director are accordingly hereby withdrawn as items of business for consideration at the General meeting of Shareholders scheduled to take place at 10.00 am, AEST on 31 January, 2018.
The Company would like to thank Dr Brandon and Mr Leonard for their contributions during their respective periods of appointment.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT
Mr. Eutillio Buccilli
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
Genetic Technologies Limited
+ 61 3 8412 7050
Jason Wong (USA)
Blueprint Life Science Group
+ 1 (415) 375 3340, Ext. 4
About Genetic Technologies Limited
Genetic Technologies is a molecular diagnostics company that offers cancer predictive testing and assessment tools to help physicians proactively manage patient health. The Company’s lead product, BREVAGen plus ® , is a clinically validated risk assessment test for non-hereditary breast cancer and is first in its class. BREVAGen plus is designed to facilitate better informed decisions about breast cancer screening and preventive treatment plans, and is directed towards women aged 35 years or above, who have not had breast cancer and have one or more risk factors for developing breast cancer.
The Company markets BREVAGen plus, through its U.S. subsidiary Phenogen Sciences Inc., to healthcare professionals in comprehensive breast health care and imaging centres, as well as to obstetricians/gynaecologists (OBGYNs) and breast cancer risk assessment specialists (such as breast surgeons). For more information, please visit www.brevagenplus.com and www.phenogensciences.com .
Genetic Technologies is developing a pipeline of risk assessment products including a novel colorectal cancer (CRC) test. For more information, please visit www.gtgcorporate.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Any statements in this press release that relate to the Company's expectations are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) implemented several significant substantive changes affecting certain cases brought under the federal securities laws, including changes related to pleading, discovery, liability, class representation and awards fees. Since this information may involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change at any time, the Company's actual results may differ materially from expected results. Additional risks associated with Genetic Technologies' business can be found in its periodic filings with the SEC.
Source:Genetic Technologies Limited