CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Maranon Capital, L.P. (“Maranon”) announced today that Laura Albrecht has been appointed Managing Director and Partner. “Laura’s promotion reflects her increasing leadership roles within Maranon in addition to her outstanding contributions underwriting and managing investments and her overall dedication to Maranon’s success,” said Tom Gregory, Maranon’s Co-Founding Partner. “We are deeply committed to the development and advancement of experienced investment professionals and are excited to have Laura as our Partner in the continued growth of Maranon.”
Laura earned an M.B.A. from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University and a B.S. Finance and Marketing from Indiana University. She is a CFA charterholder.
Maranon also announced the promotions of Dan Kirmse to Vice President and Eric Veale to Associate, both focused on portfolio management responsibilities.
In addition, three individuals joined Maranon’s team.
Charlene Meise joined as Assistant Controller. Prior to joining Maranon, Charlene was an auditor with RSM US LLP and Auditor General South Africa. Charlene earned a B.C. in Accounting from Rhodes University and a B Compt Honours (CTA) in Accounting & Finance from The University of South Africa. She is a Certified Public Accountant (active).
Michael Griffard joined as an Associate. Previously, Michael was an Analyst with Deloitte Corporate Finance. He graduated from the Trulaske College of Business at the University of Missouri, Columbia where he earned a B.S.B.A. in Finance and Banking.
Sam Eduljee joined as an Analyst after previously working at Maranon as a summer intern. Sam graduated from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he earned a B.S. in Finance with high honors.
About Maranon Capital
Maranon Capital, L.P. is an alternative investment management firm focused on private credit investments in middle market companies. Maranon’s competitive edge is its multi-product strategies that span the balance sheet with value-added financing and equity co-investments. Since 2008, Maranon has invested over $3.3 billion in over 180 transactions. For more information about Maranon please visit www.maranoncapital.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006338/en/
Maranon Contacts
L. Thomas Gregory
Managing Director & Co-Founding Partner
(312) 646-1201
ltg@maranoncapital.com
or
Ian M. Larkin
Managing Director & Co-Founding Partner
(312) 646-1202
iml@maranoncapital.com
Source: Maranon Capital, L.P.