NEW YORK, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bombora , the leading provider of B2B intent data, has named Susan Fenzl as Vice President of People Operations, based in New York City. The hire, the company’s first human resources lead, comes as the company accelerates worldwide growth in revenue and staff.
Fenzl has more than 15 years of experience guiding and developing the performance of customer-driven organizations. She arrives from Moat, where as the first HR head, she supported more than 350 employees in the US and overseas, guiding the company up to and through acquisition by Oracle in April 2017. Fenzl previously built HR teams at Nintex, Hitwise (acquired by Experian) and Paradise Bakery & Café (acquired by Panera Bread).
“Our mission is to align B2B sales and marketing with knowledge about which customers are most likely to engage,” said Erik Matlick, founder and CEO of Bombora. “Creating and helping customers and partners understand our intent data requires not only sophistication, but also selflessness, as we look to put others first in order to achieve outcomes. Susan’s track record shows that she knows how to help ensure this process, and we’re excited to have her join us.”
Bombora is primed for another year of growth in 2018 in terms of both hiring and expansion of its presence throughout the B2B sales and marketing ecosystem. Along with Fenzl, Bombora has added senior sales talent to its West Coast presence with Al Gerona (formerly of Oracle Marketing Cloud, Fliptop/Linked and Salesforce), Bob Lewis (Cision, Oracle, LinkedIn and Infogroup) and Brendan Balan (6sense, LinkedIn, Kontera and Buzzlogic) all joining in enterprise sales roles in Bombora’s San Francisco office.
About Bombora
Bombora is the leading provider of Intent data for B2B marketers. Bombora's data aligns marketing and sales teams, enabling them to base their actions on the knowledge of what companies are in market for which products. Bombora's Company Surge™ data reports on changes in consumption on specific product related topics from within businesses.
The source of this data is the first co-operative of premium B2B media companies. Members contribute content consumption and behavioral data about their audiences. In turn, they can better understand their audiences, serve advertisers and monetize their inventory.
To learn more about Bombora, visit bombora.com .
Contact:
WIT Strategy, for Bombora
Rich Cherecwich, 774.254.0952
rcherecwich@witstrategy.com
Source: Bombora