PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- LBC Credit Partners ("LBC"), a leading provider of financing solutions to middle market companies, provided senior secured credit facilities to support the acquisition of F.M.I., Inc. ("FMI" or the "Company") by AE Industrial Partners, LLC ("AEI").
LBC served as Agent for the senior secured credit facilities.
Since 1992, FMI has been an innovative supplier of specialized components, primarily for the aerospace industry. Located in Park City, Kansas, FMI offers a full range of premium machining services and market-leading technologies. The Company specializes in large scale parts and complex subassemblies for the aerospace industry. Over the last 25 years, FMI has demonstrated the expertise and efficiency required to provide quality products on time, delivering value that keeps pace with the demands of today's marketplace.
AEI is a leading private equity firm specializing in control-oriented investments in aerospace, power generation, and specialty industrial businesses. AEI invests in market-leading companies that can benefit from its deep operating experience, industry knowledge, and relationships.
About LBC Credit Partners
LBC Credit Partners is a leading provider of middle market financing solutions including senior term, unitranche, second lien, junior secured and mezzanine debt and equity co-investments supporting sponsored and non-sponsored transactions. With over $3 billion* of capital commitments, LBC has made investments in companies located throughout North America across a wide range of industries and is committed to a long-term approach to debt investing. LBC is headquartered in Philadelphia, with offices in Chicago, New York and Los Angeles. To learn more, visit www.lbccredit.com .
*Information as of November 2017
MEDIA CONTACT:
Lisa Rubano-Volansky
Tel (724) 979-4293
Email: lrubano@50words.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lbc-credit-partners-provides-senior-secured-credit-facilities-to-support-the-acquisition-of-fmi-inc-300579830.html
SOURCE LBC Credit Partners