0 COMMENTS Newspaper owner Tronc Inc. TRNC 1.67% is in talks with the news startup Axios to syndicate its coverage in the Los Angeles Times, people familiar with the discussions say.
The potential partnership, which has not been finalized, would involve Axios supplying political stories—one of its areas of expertise—but might also extend to other topics, the people said.
So far, talks have focused on publishing coverage in the Los Angeles Times, but the deal could expand to include other Tronc properties, which include papers such as the Baltimore Sun and Chicago Tribune, the people said.
It’s unclear what such a partnership would mean for Tronc’s own political coverage and its Washington, D.C. bureau, a corps of about 16 journalists that service the company’s portfolio of newspapers across the United States. In the past, executives at Tronc have floated proposals for cutting costs by reducing staffing at the D.C. bureau or eliminating it, but were met with resistance from senior editors at the Los Angeles Times, according to people familiar with the matter.
For Axios, the partnership would provide more visibility in Hollywood. Axios is said to be interested in raising its profile in Los Angeles and recently secured investment from WndrCo, a media and technology firm co-founded by producer Jeffrey Katzenberg.
The financial terms of the potential arrangement aren’t clear. It might provide a new revenue stream for Axios, which has thus far supported itself through advertising.
The tie-up with Axios would come amid heightened interest in political news over the past year-and-a-half. Axios launched about a year ago in the early days of the Trump administration and has emerged as a source of insider news on Washington happenings.
One of the proponents of an Axios partnership, Los Angeles Times Chief Executive Ross Levinsohn, took a leave of absence last week after NPR reported that Mr. Levinsohn was a defendant in two sexual-harassment lawsuits that had been settled. The report also said that Mr. Levinsohn was accused of making disparaging remarks about women and gay people at previous jobs. Tronc is investigating the matter.
Such a partnership would fall in line with public statements by Tronc executives about the direction of the company. At a conference last week, Mr. Levinsohn outlined a plan that called for Tronc to forge alliances with distribution partners and platforms in various markets.