Dougie Hamilton scored twice to lead the red-hot Calgary Flames to a 4-1 victory over the Carolina Hurricanes on Sunday afternoon at PNC Arena in Raleigh, N.C., their seventh consecutive win.
Goalie Mike Smith stopped 38 shots for the Flames, who go into their bye week after running the table on a four-game road trip and vaulting into second place in the Pacific Division.
Matt Stajan netted his first goal of the season, snapping a 37-game goal-scoring drought in the process, to open the scoring. Curtis Lazar blazed down the ice and lost the puck when he was hauled down after racing by the defender, and Stajan was on the spot to grab a loose puck and beat Scott Darling.
Hamilton made it a 2-0 game late in the opening period to the dismay of the home faithful. Johnny Gaudreau used his wheels to drive into the offensive zone and draw the attention of all the defenders before feeding the trailing Hamilton, and he ripped home a shot from the slot.
Hamilton’s second of the game completed a wild turn of events early in the final frame. Seconds after Brock McGinn rang a shot off the post, Hamilton finished a perfectly executed 3-on-1 rush.
Matthew Tkachuk rounded out Calgary’s scoring to make it 4-0.
Gaudreau, who had a pair of helpers, is riding a seven-game point streak, in which he’s collected two goals and 11 assists, while Hamilton is on a five-game run with four goals and six points.
Lee Stempniak scored Carolina’s lone goal on a late power play, his first of the season after missing the first 43 games due to injury
Calgary’s top-line center Sean Monahan missed the game due to illness, and Marek Hrivik played his first game for the team. Hrivik played 21 games for the New York Rangers over parts of two seasons before signing as a free agent last summer.
Flames captain Mark Giordano was handed a match penalty and game misconduct after hitting Sebastian Aho, and knocking him from the game, which may result in a suspension.
Carolina goalie Scott Darling made 26 saves in the loss.
--Field Level Media
 