ORANGE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Western Dental & Orthodontics, one of the nation’s leaders in accessible, affordable, high-quality oral health care, today announced the appointment of Dr. Corina Ramirez as Pediatric Director for Western Dental.
Dr. Ramirez has been seeing patients at the Kids Smiles of Whittier office in Los Angeles, which became part of Western Dental via the company’s acquisition of Children’s Dental Group in August of last year.
As Pediatric Director, she will have the primary responsibility of ensuring quality of care for pediatric patients throughout Western Dental, including its 24 dedicated pediatric offices.
This position will support the pediatric clinical team and will help develop and retain pediatric clinical providers. Dr. Ramirez will shape and drive clinical protocols, clinical metrics, and the patient care experience in collaboration with pediatric dentists, regional and office management, corporate leadership and the quality management team.
Dr. Ramirez has more than 30 years of dental industry experience. She received her Doctor of Dental Surgery from University of Southern California, where she graduated in the top four percent of her class.
She received pediatric specialty training at University of California – Los Angeles, where she also served as the chief resident of the class of 2006. Dr. Ramirez currently holds a part-time Clinical/Lecturer Faculty position at UCLA, and she is involved with multiple dental and nonprofit organizations.
“We recently completed several acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, making the Company a leader in pediatric dentistry,” said Daniel D. Crowley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Western Dental and its affiliate, Brident Dental & Orthodontics. “The pediatric expertise and clinical leadership of Dr. Ramirez will help to ensure that children continue to receive excellent care in the Dental Home we are creating for the entire family.”
“I’m very pleased to be part of the team at Western Dental and Brident,” Dr. Ramirez said. “We have a great group of pediatric dentists, and it will be exciting to help build this team on a solid foundation of excellence in clinical quality and service.”
ABOUT WESTERN DENTAL
Western Dental (with its affiliates, including Brident Dental & Orthodontics) is one of the nation’s largest dental providers and is the leader in accessible, affordable oral healthcare, serving approximately 2.5 million patient visits annually in 244 affiliated offices throughout California, Arizona, Nevada, and Texas. In addition to general dentistry, it offers orthodontics, oral surgery, pedodontics, periodontics and endodontics in its offices, creating a convenient full service “Dental Home.”
In California, Western Dental is the leading provider of services to both adults and children in the Denti-Cal program – part of the Medi-Cal public insurance program that provides health care benefits for more than 13 million low-income individuals and families. Western Dental dentists provided care to more than a half-million Denti-Cal beneficiaries in 2016 and is committed to continuing to partner with the State to help improve the program.
All of Western Dental’s services are backed by a unique quality assurance system that electronically monitors all patient visits, treatments, dental staff and clinical performance to enable high-quality care. To learn more about Western Dental or inquire about an office in your community, visit www.westerndental.com or call 1-800-6-DENTAL.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129006004/en/
for Western Dental
Jeffrey Weidel
Office: 916-781-0616
Cell: 916-402-7132
jeff@halldinpr.com
Source: Western Dental