DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- BNY Mellon Wealth Management has named Ed Kleist Regional Managing Director in Denver, Colorado. Kleist will report to Regional President, Jim Barnyak, and will be responsible for driving growth and expansion in Colorado Markets. Kleist will focus on M&A, Family Office, Fiduciary and the non-profit space.
“Ed has over 25 years of experience and expertise in the Family Office and Modern Fiduciary markets. He also has background in the M&A space on both the buy and sell side. As a seasoned executive with a proven background and significant experience, we are excited to welcome him to the team with the mission to continue to drive our brand, visibility and thought leadership in the Colorado markets,” said Jim Barnyak.
Prior to joining BNY Mellon Wealth Management, Kleist was CEO, COO, CFO and CIO of four single family offices where he worked through various challenges around investments, real estate, estate planning, tax issues, family governance and family dynamics.
Kleist holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from the University of San Diego in California. He is a licensed CPA (inactive), and holds his series 7 and series 66.
About BNY Mellon Wealth Management
BNY Mellon Wealth Management is a leading wealth manager. In 2016 it was named by Family Wealth Report as the top U.S. Private Bank and rated the Top Private Bank for Family Offices by Professional Wealth Management magazine. Barron’s ranked it the 10th largest U.S. wealth manager in 2017. The firm has more than two centuries of experience in providing services to clients who today include financially successful individuals and families, their family offices and business enterprises, planned giving programs, and endowments and foundations. It has $231 billion in total client assets, as of September 30, 2017, and an extensive network of offices in the U.S. and internationally. BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which provides investment management, custody, wealth and estate planning and private banking services, conducts business through various operating subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. For more information go to bnymellonwealth.com or follow us on Twitter @BNYMellonWealth.
About BNY Mellon
BNY Mellon is a global investments company dedicated to helping its clients manage and service their financial assets throughout the investment lifecycle. Whether providing financial services for institutions, corporations or individual investors, BNY Mellon delivers informed investment management and investment services in 35 countries and more than 100 markets. As of Sept. 30, 2017, BNY Mellon had $32.2 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration, and $1.8 trillion in assets under management. BNY Mellon can act as a single point of contact for clients looking to create, trade, hold, manage, service, distribute or restructure investments. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE: BK). Additional information is available on www.bnymellon.com . Follow us on Twitter @BNYMellon or visit our newsroom at www.bnymellon.com/newsroom for the latest company news.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005745/en/
Elevate Communications
Lucy Muscarella, 617-312-6411
lmuscarella@elevatecom.com
Source: BNY Mellon Wealth Management