BOSTON, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Burns & Levinson announced today that Jeffrey D. Knight has joined the firm's Corporate Group and Dawn A. MacGregor has joined the firm's Private Client Group. Both have joined as associates of the firm.
As a member of the Corporate Group, Knight will continue to focus his practice on formation, corporate maintenance, financings, operations, and regulatory compliance. Prior to joining Burns & Levinson, Knight practiced at Long, Knight, Huff-Harris and Hagan, which he co-founded in 2014. He received his J.D. from New England School of Law in 2013, and his B.A. from the University of Florida in 2010.
MacGregor joins the firm's Private Client Group after six years in solo practice, where she focused on family law, domestic relations, probate litigation, and administration matters. She is particularly experienced in divorce litigation involving complex assets, business valuation, prenuptial and postnuptial agreements, high conflict custody disputes, alimony, and child support. She received her J.D. from New England School of Law in 1998 and her B.S. from Bentley College in 1991.
"Our corporate and private client groups continue to grow, which means we are always looking for strong lateral hires at all levels to add to our bench," said Managing Partner David Rosenblatt. "Both Jeffrey and Dawn will bring tremendous experience and knowledge to our teams and our clients, and we are excited to bring them on board."
About Burns & Levinson LLP
At Burns & Levinson, we provide high-level, client-centric and results-oriented legal services to our regional, national and international clients. We are a full-service law firm with over 125 lawyers in Boston, Providence and other regional offices. Our areas of expertise include: business/finance, business litigation/dispute resolution, divorce/family law, venture capital/emerging companies, employment, estate planning, government investigations, intellectual property, M&A/private equity, probate/trust litigation, and real estate. We partner with our clients to solve their business and personal legal issues in a collaborative, creative, and cost-effective way. For more information, visit Burns & Levinson at www.burnslev.com .
Contact:
Kristen Weller
Chief Marketing & Business Development Officer
617.345.3555
kweller@burnslev.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/burns--levinson-adds-two-new-laterals-300581487.html
SOURCE Burns & Levinson