OKLAHOMA CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sonic Corp. (NASDAQ:SONC), the nation's largest chain of drive-in restaurants, today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock to be paid to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 7, 2018, with a payment date of February 16, 2018. In addition to the dividend, the company has a share repurchase authorization for up to $160 million of its common stock through August 31, 2018.
Future declaration of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of the company's Board of Directors.
About Sonic
SONIC, America's Drive-In is the nation's largest drive-in restaurant chain serving approximately 3 million customers every day. Nearly 94 percent of SONIC's 3,500 drive-in locations are owned and operated by local business men and women. For 65 years, SONIC has delighted guests with signature menu items, 1.3 million drink combinations and friendly service by iconic Carhops. Since the 2009 launch of SONIC's Limeades for Learning philanthropic campaign in partnership with DonorsChoose.org , SONIC has donated $9.5 million to public school teachers nationwide to fund essential learning materials and innovative teaching resources to inspire creativity and learning in today's youth. To learn more about Sonic Corp. (NASDAQ/NM: SONC), please visit sonicdrivein.com and please visit or follow us on Facebook and Twitter. To learn more about SONIC's Limeades for Learning initiative, please visit Limeadesforlearning.com .
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements are detailed in the company’s annual and quarterly report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unforeseen events, except as required to be reported under the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SONC-F
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005685/en/
Sonic Corp.
Corey Horsch, 405-225-4800
Vice President of Investor Relations
and Treasurer
Source: Sonic Corp.