GAITHERSBURG, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Smithers Avanza , a boutique contract research organization (CRO) supporting the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, named Caitlin Murphy, PhD, DABT to the position of Director of Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology (DART) and Steven Godin, PhD, DABT to the role of Senior Principal Toxicologist.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006863/en/
Caitlin Murphy, PhD, DABT and Steven Godin, PhD, DABT (Photo: Business Wire)
“It is my great pleasure to promote Dr. Godin and Dr. Murphy to enhanced leadership roles at Smithers Avanza,” said Michael Dorato, PhD, DABT, Fellow ATS, Executive Vice President, Smithers Avanza Toxicology Services. “They are both talented scientists who have made important contributions to our organization through their excellent work on behalf of our clients. Their advancement will help emphasize the value we place on client engagement, scientific excellence and on-time delivery.”
Dr. Murphy has led the establishment of Smithers Avanza’s Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology expertise, and has successfully engaged with clients across the pharmaceutical, agrochemical and chemical industry segments. In her new role, she will oversee the expansion of DART activities in line with the growing demand from clients for this expertise. Dr. Murphy received her BS in Animal Sciences from Oregon State University and her PhD in Reproductive Biology from the University of Wyoming. She conducted her post-doctoral studies in Pharmacology and Toxicology at University of Texas, Austin.
Dr. Godin has made significant contributions in client engagement and study direction over the course of 2017. He possesses significant toxicology and regulatory experience and a well-developed perspective on the drug development process. Dr. Godin will continue to engage with clients and will work closely with Dr. Murphy in developing the Smithers Avanza toxicology center of excellence. He received his BS in Biology from University of Massachusetts Boston and both his MS in Biology and PhD in Pharmaceutical Sciences from the University of Kentucky.
For more information about the Smithers Avanza portfolio of services, visit http://smithersavanza.com .
About Smithers Avanza
Smithers Avanza is a contract research organization (CRO) supporting the pharmaceutical, agrochemical and chemical industries. Our scientists have expertise in the toxicologic assessment of pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and chemicals, large molecule bioanalysis, assay development, validation and sample analysis at our GLP- and GCP-compliant and CLIA-certified registered laboratory. Key Toxicology Services expertise includes developmental and reproductive toxicology (DART), general toxicology, vaccine safety and toxicokinetics.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006863/en/
Smithers Avanza
Hope Aubin, 508-322-5616
Director of Marketing
haubin@smithers.com
Source: Smithers Avanza