ORRVILLE, Ohio, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) will conduct its third quarter fiscal 2018 earnings conference call and webcast on Friday, February 16, 2018, at 7:30 a.m. Eastern time. Earnings will be released the morning of the call. The live webcast and replay can be accessed by logging on to jmsmucker.com/investor-relations .
The Company also invites interested parties to listen to its executive management presentation at the 2018 CAGNY Conference on Wednesday, February 21, 2018, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time. The live webcast and replay can be accessed by logging on to jmsmucker.com/investor-relations .
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For 120 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that bring families together to share memorable meals and moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of consumer food and beverage products and pet food and pet snacks in North America. In consumer foods and beverages, its brands include Smucker's ® , Folgers ® , Jif ® , Dunkin' Donuts ® , Crisco ® , Pillsbury ® , R.W. Knudsen Family ® , Hungry Jack ® , Café Bustelo ® , Martha White ® , truRoots ® , Sahale Snacks ® , Robin Hood ® , and Bick's ® . In pet food and pet snacks, its brands include Meow Mix ® , Milk-Bone ® , Kibbles 'n Bits ® , Natural Balance ® , and 9Lives ® . The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. For more information about the Company, visit jmsmucker.com .
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks referenced herein, except for the following, which are used under license: Pillsbury ® is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, LLC and Dunkin' Donuts ® is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC.
Dunkin' Donuts ® brand is licensed to The J. M. Smucker Company for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. This information does not pertain to Dunkin' Donuts ® coffee or other products for sale in Dunkin' Donuts ® restaurants.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-j-m-smucker-company-announces-webcasts-of-third-quarter-earnings-conference-call-and-presentation-at-the-2018-consumer-analyst-group-of-new-york-cagny-conference-300588778.html
SOURCE The J.M. Smucker Company