SAN FRANCISCO and LONDON, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MOVE Guides , a technology leader that helps HR teams move their employees around the world, today announced the appointment of Julie Knight-Ludvigson as Chief Marketing Officer. Knight-Ludvigson brings over a decade of experience building world-class marketing organizations and helping companies to accelerate their go-to-market strategies.
Julie Knight, Chief Marketing Officer
Knight-Ludvigson joins MOVE Guides from her role as CMO of Reflektive, a provider of real-time performance management solutions sold to HR leaders for use across their workforces. Before that, she was vice president, Global Enterprise Marketing at Zendesk and senior vice president, Global Marketing at SAP, where she saw all manner of integrated marketing activities for the company. She joined SAP through the SuccessFactors acquisition, where she led Global Marketing. She holds a bachelor’s degree from University of California, Berkeley and has participated in Columbia University’s executive education program.
Brynne Kennedy, founder and CEO of MOVE Guides, said, “As MOVE Guides transforms global talent mobility, having a leader with Julie’s extensive background in marketing enterprise solutions to HR leaders is a critical ingredient to our success. We’re thrilled to welcome Julie to the company and to the leadership team.”
Knight-Ludvigson commented, “Global relocation represents an untapped frontier for enterprises struggling to differentiate through talent. The future of work depends on HR leaders placing talent where and when it’s needed in order to quickly capitalize on key business opportunities and growth objectives. I am excited to join MOVE Guides; it’s a company that’s driving such a sea change in human resources through its expertise in talent mobility solutions.”
Having disrupted traditional relocation management, MOVE Guides is turning workforce mobility into a true competitive advantage. MOVE Guides has redefined the historically fragmented and often ambiguous experience by optimizing costs, centralizing data and creating efficiencies for employers and employees. Working with MOVE Guides gives employers the ability to strategically transition talent where it’s needed most by leveraging a single platform approach featuring tailored location information, tax and immigration details and centralized reporting.
MOVE Guides closed $48 million in a Series C funding from Future Fund, New Enterprise Associates (NEA) and Notion Capital in 2017, bringing the total capital raised to $91M to tackle a market worth $11 billion by industry estimates. MOVE Guides currently serves over 70 customers, including market leaders such as Procore, Societe Generale, Johnson Electric, Slack, and Dairy Farm.
About MOVE Guides
MOVE Guides powers global business with the first cloud-based software platform designed for the growing mobile workforce. Industry leading companies rely on our Talent Mobility Cloud to deliver their global mobility programs across more than 190 countries with increased operational efficiencies, trusted compliance and engaging employee experiences. MOVE Guides’ philanthropic initiative – Mobility4All – provides opportunities for those fleeing poverty and conflict by moving to new locations.
Backed by New Enterprise Associates and Notion Capital, MOVE Guides is headquartered in San Francisco and London, with offices throughout the Americas, EMEA and APAC. For more information, go to www.moveguides.com and follow MOVE Guides on Twitter , Facebook and LinkedIn .
Note to editors: Trademarks and registered trademarks referenced herein remain the property of their respective owners.
Media Contact:
Sean Pratt
MOVE Guides
sean@moveguides.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/1fe2cb28-0400-4606-b2a0-45f236abb964
Source: MOVE Guides