NEW YORK, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Fourth , providers of a leading hospitality operations platform, announced it has added Janice Mackler as North American sales director, Fiona Meldrum as Senior Project Manager and Michael Hamel and Jason Kenney as U.S. business development representatives. The new hires reflect the continued strategic expansion of Fourth's U.S. sales force.
In their new roles, Mackler, Meldrum, Hamel and Kenney will support Fourth's accelerated investment in its labor productivity, HR & payroll, purchase-to-pay, inventory management and menu engineering solutions, for clients in the U.S. market.
"We continue to invest in and expand Fourth's footprint in the U.S. market to meet demand for our hospitality platform. Janice, Fiona, Michael and Jason will be essential to delivering on the excellent service that is integral to our vision for our clients," said James England, SVP of Strategic Partnerships for Fourth. "In addition, these new team members will bring our USA-based team to 50 and position us well for additional customer acquisition and onboarding."
Mackler brings to Fourth 18 years of experience in sales and business management, previously with Vivonet as an enterprise sales executive and Retail Data Systems as an account manager. Based in the Atlanta area, a former owner of a commercial real estate investment company and a graduate of Kennesaw State University, Mackler will report to James England.
Kenney, a graduate of Fitchburg State University, and will be based in Boston, MA. Previously, he worked for The Ritz-Carlton. Hamel, is a graduate of The Ohio State University and is based near Columbus, OH,
About Fourth
Established in 1999 by restaurant and hospitality entrepreneurs Derek and Edwina Lilley, Fourth was conceived "by hospitality professionals for hospitality professionals." Fourth offers a complete hospitality operations platform for purchase-to-pay & inventory and workforce management, underpinned by smart analytics and collaboration tools, enabling customers to optimize profits, enhance guest satisfaction and scale profitably. Its 1,100 customers in 60 countries include many of the world's most famous hospitality brands. To learn more, please visit www.fourth.com/en-us .
Media Contact
Lauren Bayse
Allison+Partners
646-428-0652
Fourth@allisonpr.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fourth-expands-us-sales-team-300588275.html
SOURCE Fourth