MINNEAPOLIS, Jamf , the standard in Apple ecosystem management, today announced its ranking as the fastest growing app in Okta’s 2018 Businesses @ Work report , seeing 398 percent year over year growth within Okta’s customer network. With this recognition, Jamf joins leading enterprise apps Zoom and Slack, which held the title in previous years. The news was unveiled yesterday at Okta’s Businesses @ Work event where Jamf CEO Dean Hager spoke alongside C-level executives from Okta, ServiceNow and PagerDuty on a panel moderated by Forbes.
Jamf’s ranking as the fastest growing app in Okta’s fourth annual Businesses @ Work report is a further proof point to the surging adoption of Apple devices by the enterprise. As previous research shows, this trend is becoming increasingly mainstream as more and more organizations implement choice programs, giving employees the freedom to use the devices at work that make them the most productive and happy.
“The power of the user voice has never been as loud and clear as it is today, as they want choice, flexiblity, access and privacy, and to use the devices of their choice both in their personal lives and at work,” said Hager on the Business @ Work panel. “It’s a very different world of security, as IT can no longer limit when and how employees use their devices. Jamf helps organizations succeed with Apple by bringing together these two completely separate demands into one product – IT’s needs for device management and security on the one hand, and user accessibility and privacy in the other.”
Okta’s Businesses @ Work event brought together more than 70 attendees in San Francisco to hear best practices and trends on technology in the enterprise. The event also included talks and panels featuring Box, Workday and the FBI.
Today’s news comes on the heels of Jamf’s recent announcement that it concluded 2017 with record growth, expanding its customer base by 40 percent to include over 4,000 new organizations, with its customer roster including 17 of the 25 largest Fortune 500 companies.
About Jamf
Since 2002, Jamf has been solely focused on helping organizations succeed with Apple. Jamf is committed to enabling IT to empower end users and bring the legendary Apple experience to businesses, education and government organizations via its Jamf Pro and Jamf Now products, and the 56,000+ member Jamf Nation. Today, nearly 14,000 global customers rely on Jamf to manage more than nine million Apple devices. To learn more, visit: https://www.jamf.com .
Media Contact:
Kaitlin Shinkle
Director of Communications
kaitlin.shinkle@jamf.com
612-508-2643
Source: Jamf