DALLAS, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- CEO Daniel J. Healy today announced Darla Wilton as Chief Operating Officer and a Managing Director for Civitas Capital Group , an international asset management firm headquartered in Dallas.
"Darla's deep expertise as a 20-year financial operations executive makes her a dynamic addition to Civitas," Healy said. "Her experience ensures Civitas will continue delivering unparalleled customer service as we grow."
Wilton will be responsible for leading all operations, including business processes, human resources, communications, marketing, and technology. Her first day as COO was January 2.
Wilton most recently was the VP and Chief Administrative Officer at Ameritas Investment Corp., a $17 billion national financial advisory firm headquartered in Lincoln, Nebraska.
"I see my role as aligning the firm's expanding resources to deliver exceptional value to our investors – institutions, family office, and individuals alike," said Wilton, a Houston native. "I'm excited to help Civitas grow, and I'm happy to once again be working in Texas."
At Ameritas, Wilton led implementation of a new technology platform and strengthened the company's operational infrastructure needed to underpin a growth-oriented organization. Previously, Wilton held senior operations positions at BlackRock, AIG, and Charles Schwab.
Wilton said the opportunity to join a firm with a global focus and investor base was a prime consideration.
"I was immediately struck by Civitas' culture of diversity," Wilton says. "The firm has more than 1200 investors from over 30 countries; the staff speaks 17 languages. That the commitment to diversity at Civitas is both a core value and a competitive advantage stands out. I'm eager to take on the challenge of growing and strengthening the firm's operations moving forward."
Civitas Capital Group is a unique alternative asset management firm. We focus on niche, differentiated opportunities in real estate, lodging, and alternative credit. Our rich expertise, analytical rigor, and cultural competency yield compelling investment strategies for global institutional investors, family offices, and qualified individuals through our Alternative Investments and EB-5 Capital divisions.
This press release does not constitute an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not authorized or to any person to whom it would be unlawful to make such offer or solicitation. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/civitas-capital-group-names-darla-wilton-managing-director-and-chief-operating-officer-300579460.html
SOURCE Civitas Capital Group