LOS ANGELES, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Ritter Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: RTTR) (“Ritter Pharmaceuticals” or the “Company”), a developer of novel therapeutics that modulate the human gut microbiome to treat gastrointestinal diseases, today announced the appointment of Diane J. Plotkin, Ph.D., as Vice President of Clinical Development.
Dr. Plotkin joins Ritter Pharmaceuticals with nearly thirty years of experience in strategic, global clinical pharmaceutical research involving all phases of drug development. During her career, she has contributed to over fifteen Phase 3 clinical trials and multiple drug development programs leading to successful marketing approvals in both large-scale pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Dr. Plotkin was recently Senior Director of Worldwide Clinical Development for ActivX Biosciences, Inc., a subsidiary of Kyorin Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., where she established and led the clinical development department to evaluate drugs for metabolic disorders from 2008 to 2014. Prior to ActivX, she spent the majority of her career at Merck Research Laboratories where she held positions of increasing responsibility serving most recently as Associate Director within the Department of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, and Department of Cardiovascular and Atherosclerosis Clinical Research. Dr. Plotkin received her B.A. Magna Cum Laude in biology from Wheaton College, earned her Ph.D. in biology from the University of Chicago, and completed her post-doctoral work at Yale University.
Dr. Plotkin will oversee the Company’s clinical development program of RP-G28 to treat patients with lactose intolerance, including the Company’s launch of its first pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of approximately 500 subjects. Enrollment is expected to start early this summer.
“As a person who suffers from severe lactose intolerance, I am both motivated personally and enthusiastic professionally to join the talented team at Ritter Pharmaceuticals at a pivotal moment in the Company’s pursuit of developing the first FDA-approved treatment for lactose intolerance,” commented Dr. Plotkin. “A first in class drug in a new therapeutic area presents a unique opportunity to make real positive impact on public health.”
“Dr. Plotkin has extensive experience and knowledge of clinical trials and the FDA approval process,” added Andrew J. Ritter, co-founder and president of Ritter Pharmaceuticals, Inc. “Following our End-of-Phase 2 meeting, we have a clear path forward into our Phase 3 program from the FDA. We look forward to having Dr. Plotkin actively lead our clinical team as we are committed to ensuring that the clinical development of RP-G28 is executed safely with scientific rigor and high-quality pharmaceutical execution.”
About Ritter Pharmaceuticals
Ritter Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( www.RitterPharma.com , @RitterPharma) develops novel therapeutic products that modulate the human gut microbiome to treat gastrointestinal diseases. The Company’s lead product, RP-G28, has the potential to become the first FDA-approved treatment for lactose intolerance, a condition that affects millions worldwide. RP-G28 has been studied in Phase 2 trials and is now in Phase 3 clinical development. The Company is further exploring the functionality and discovering the therapeutic potential gut microbiome changes may have on treating/preventing a variety of conditions including: gastrointestinal diseases, immuno-oncology, metabolic, and liver disease.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements refer to future plans and expectations, including statements regarding the timing of our first Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial. Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made. However, such statements involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s future results, performance or achievements to differ significantly from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the Company’s actual results are included in the Company’s SEC filings, including the Company’s most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Contacts Investor Contact: Jeffrey Benjamin 310-203-1000 jeffrey@ritterpharma.com
Source:Ritter Pharmaceuticals, Inc.