CARLSBAD, Calif., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- HUB International of California, a wholly owned subsidiary of HUB International Limited, a leading global insurance brokerage, risk advisory and employee benefits consultancy firm, announced today the hiring Maria Torres as Vice President, Account Executive for the California Executive Liability Team.
Ms. Torres has worked in virtually all facets of management liability, Cyber / Data Security and Professional Liability coverage placements for over twenty-two years. Most recently, Ms. Torres served as Vice President, Advisory Specialist for Marsh Risk and Insurance Services FINPRO (Financial & Professional Insurance) Service Team in Los Angeles, California. Ms. Torres started her career with Marsh as an Insurance Assistant and steadily expanded her responsibility to that of Assistant Vice President, Client Representative, and ultimately to Vice President, Advisory Specialist with the FINPRO team
Adrian Atilano, Executive Vice President of HUB California's Executive Liability Practice, said of Ms. Torres' hiring: "We are thrilled to have Maria join HUB's Executive Liability Practice. With over twenty-two years of industry expertise, Maria brings a drive and passion for her craft that will add a tremendous amount of value to the HUB client experience. She has a unique ability to educate and guide her clients while assisting them in making informed decisions on risk transfer methods. Her professionalism and values fit in perfectly with our team."
Ms. Torres said of her decision to join the HUB Executive Liability team: "There are a few reasons why I chose HUB. One is that it encourages its employees to be entrepreneurial. Another reason is HUB's main focus is on providing best-in-class solutions for its clients. Last but certainly not least, HUB promotes teamwork, collaboration and work/life balance within the organization." She continued, "I bring with me twenty-two years of experience of handling D & O, EPL, Wage & Hour, Fiduciary, Crime, K & R, Cyber and E & O (miscellaneous, architects and engineers, and investment management liability). I have worked through several insurance market cycles, seen various types of claims and tackled unique issues clients have had to confront. I have worked with private and public clients (mid-cap to fortune 500 companies), and I find it exciting and rewarding to work with many different industries. I must say that I have a special affection for working with private equity firms and enjoy the challenge of finding exceptional solutions for the organization as well as their portfolio program."
Ms. Torres received a Bachelor of Arts degree in business administration with an emphasis on finance from California State University at Fullerton. When Ms. Torres is not analyzing risk exposures for her clients, she enjoys time with friends and family as well as baking and the occasional landscape painting.
About Hub International
Headquartered in Chicago, IL, Hub International Limited is a leading global insurance brokerage that provides property and casualty, life and health, employee benefits, investment, and risk management products and services through offices located in the United States, Canada, and Latin America. Hub California is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hub International Limited with offices throughout California.
Media Contact:
Adrian Atilano
Executive Vice President,
Executive Liability Practice
HUB International Insurance Services, Inc.
1903 Wright Place
Carlsbad, CA 92008
BUSINESS PHONE: (858) 373-6948
188479@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hub-california-adds-maria-torres-to-the-executive-liability-practice-300579876.html
SOURCE Hub International