BROOKLYN, N.Y., Jan. 12, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kenneth J. Mahon, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. (the “Company” or “Dime”) (NASDAQ:DCOM), the parent company of Dime Community Bank (the “bank”), is pleased to announce that Alan Green has joined the bank as Senior Vice President - Business Banking. Mr. Green, who will report to Conrad Gunther, Executive Vice President - Business Banking, will be based in Dime's Manhattan office.
According to Mr. Mahon, "When we began our relationship-based Business Banking division, we knew the key to prudently growing this business was attracting highly regarded, proven bankers with deep relationships throughout our market. Alan possesses these qualities, and also aligns well with our culture of customer centricity. We are pleased to welcome another experienced banker to our growing Business Banking division."
Mr. Green has over 30 years of commercial lending experience and joins Dime from M&T Bank, where he managed the Middle Market Commercial Banking division for New York City. In this role, he was responsible for managing a team of lenders and oversaw all aspects of new business development and portfolio relationship management. Prior to M&T, Mr. Green was Senior Vice President - Commercial Lending at Wachovia Bank, and earlier in his career served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. Mr. Green graduated with a Bachelor of Arts from Northwestern University and received an MBA from New York University.
ABOUT DIME COMMUNITY BANCSHARES, INC.
The Company had $6.44 billion in consolidated assets as of September 30, 2017, and is the parent company of the bank. The bank was founded in 1864, is headquartered in Brooklyn, New York, and currently has 28 branches located throughout Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, and Nassau County and Suffolk County, New York. More information on the Company and the bank can be found on Dime's website at www.dime.com .
Contact: Anthony Rose, Executive Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. 718-782-6200 extension 5260
Source:Dime Community Bancshares, Inc.