DES MOINES, Iowa--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cintas Corporation (NASDAQ: CTAS) announced today plans to gradually close its centralized stockroom in Des Moines, IA over the next four months. Cintas acquired this facility as part of its merger with G&K Services earlier this year.
“Our strategy is to focus on the optimal distribution structure to facilitate excellent customer service and future growth across our entire organization,” said Terri Cain, Vice President of Distribution for Cintas. “As part of our integration of the distribution network we acquired from G&K, the company has made the decision to shut down this facility and integrate the products into other stockrooms across our company.”
The facilities closure will impact about 35 employee-partners. Cintas has other facilities in the Des Moines market and affected employee-partners are encouraged to apply for open positions at those facilities. If the company is unable to offer continuing employment or severance pay, optional continued healthcare coverage and job placement help and resources will be provided. It is a top priority for the company to assist these employee-partners and their families throughout this transition.
About Cintas Corporation:
Cintas Corporation helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes get Ready™ to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers’ image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, floor care, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and safety and compliance training, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday® . Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS and is a component of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005563/en/
Cintas Corporation
Michelle Goret, 513-573-4155
Vice President of Corporate Communications
goretm@cintas.com
Source: Cintas Corporation