PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Govberg and WatchBox today announce the appointment of Michael Manjos as the company's new Chief Revenue Officer and Shri Ballal as the new Chief Technology Officer. The expansion of the company's leadership team follows an unprecedented year of growth for the luxury watch retailer and pre-owned e-commerce platform and sets the stage for the next phase of strategic development.
"As we continue to grow and achieve global visibility, we are developing a solid leadership team composed of experts in their respective fields," said Amanda Ellison, President of Govberg and WatchBox. "Both Michael Manjos and Shri Ballal are invaluable in our race to become a $500 million sales operation."
Michael Manjos steers the new chapter of leadership at luxury watch retailer, Govberg Jewelers and the pre-owned luxury watch e-commerce platform, WatchBox, as the company's first global Chief Revenue Officer. The newly created position will see Manjos responsible for optimizing the sales revenue and commercial activities across all platforms and departments of both Govberg and sister company, WatchBox.
An accomplished luxury executive, Manjos brings with him more than three decades of watch industry experience, an international perspective of the Swiss watch industry and an acute understanding of both the primary and pre-owned watch markets. In this new role, Manjos will identify business opportunities across global markets as WatchBox scales its operation in the buying, selling and trading of pre-owned luxury watches.
"It's rare to find someone who both understands the primary watch business and is respected by leading luxury watch brands while also maintaining proficiency of the pre-owned watch market and the nuances of the global market," said Danny Govberg, CEO of Govberg Jewelers and co-founder of WatchBox. "Michael ticks all the boxes."
Prior to joining Govberg and WatchBox, Manjos served as Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Head of Global Watches for Greenwich-based Betteridge for 17 years. He directed the company's global watch and jewelry business, including its retail and wholesale divisions. Manjos also served as Vice President of Operations for Lenox Jewelers for 16 years.
Shri Ballal joins Govberg and WatchBox as its first Chief Technology Officer, bringing with him over two decades of experience and a passion for cloud-based, modern technologies. Ballal has designed core platforms and infrastructure across various industries, enabling companies to deliver innovative products and services to consumers worldwide. He previously served as Managing Director of Electronic Arts' (EA) Core Engineering group, where he delivered digital content, gaming services and entertainment for millions of players worldwide.
As CTO, Ballal will be developing a roadmap to unite and scale the company's digital properties, including the global website and flagship mobile product, the WatchBox app.
"The user experience and how we choose to communicate with a niche audience is paramount for the success of any tech product or platform, whether building for the gaming community or our global community of watch enthusiasts," added Ellison. "Shri's skillset and ingenuity will be brought to market in the next quarter, as he rolls out an intriguing array of mixed reality products to drive the future of luxury watch commerce."
For more information about Govberg or WatchBox or to schedule interviews with Manjos or Ballal, please contact The Lilian Raji Agency at lilian@lmrpr.com or (646) 789-4427 ext 701.
ABOUT GOVBERG JEWELERS
Established in 1916, Govberg Jewelers is one of the nation's most elite purveyors of luxury timepieces, offering an unrivaled selection of exclusive and limited-production models by leading watchmakers, a pre-owned inventory and service offerings of remarkable breadth and a knowledgeable team to cultivate meaningful client experiences. As one of the largest independent retailers for fine watches in North America, Govberg offers exclusive brand representation in Philadelphia for many companies, including Patek Philippe, Rolex, Audemars Piguet, F.P. Journe, Jaeger-LeCoultre, Panerai, Vacheron Constantin, IWC, Breitling, Hublot, Omega and many more.
Govberg's timepieces and services are readily available within three flagship stores in Philadelphia, Ardmore and Cleveland, Ohio, as well as online – www.govbergwatches.com – and by calling 800.528.8463; accessible 24/7.
ABOUT WATCHBOX
WatchBox is the world's leading ecommerce platform for the buying, selling and trading of pre-owned luxury timepieces; fueled by technology, innovation and unmatched global experience in the high-end watch market. WatchBox offers an unrivaled selection of pre-owned luxury timepieces for sale; including exclusive, hard-to-source and limited production models by leading watchmakers; and its client services for selling and trading timepieces are streamlined and readily accessible both on and offline. Trust, pricing transparency and authentication are central tenants to WatchBox's platform, with each timepiece thoroughly evaluated by the company's in-house master watchmakers.
WatchBox's timepieces and services are readily available within private showrooms and buying offices in Philadelphia and Hong Kong, as well as online – www.thewatchbox.com – through the company's mobile application for iOS and Android devices – called WatchBox – or by calling WatchBox's concierge client associates. U.S. 866.858.8434 | Asia 852 3018 8594
For More Information
Lilian M Raji
The Lilian Raji Agency
(646) 789-4427 ext 701
188528@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/power-moves--govberg-and-watchbox-expand-executive-leadership-team-with-appointments-of-michael-manjos-as-chief-revenue-officer-and-shri-ballal-as-chief-technology-officer-300580508.html
SOURCE WatchBox