NEW YORK, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Ad Council announced today that Kenneth Kroll has been promoted to Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the non-profit organization. Kroll, promoted from SVP, Finance, has been with the Ad Council for ten years. He succeeds Jon Fish who left the organization in 2016.
In his new role, Kroll will continue to oversee and direct the financial operations of the organization. He will also continue to serve on the Ad Council's Leadership Team, advising the team on organizational strategies and opportunities that have a financial impact on the business.
"Over the last ten years at the Ad Council, Ken has shown an exceptional ability to leverage his business and financial acumen to empower our team and our campaigns to drive meaningful impact," said Lisa Sherman, President & CEO of the Ad Council. "I look forward to Ken's leadership in his new role."
Prior to joining the Ad Council, Kroll served in various roles at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc., including Publishing Finance Director, Circulation Business Manager and Television Production Business Manager. He also spent many years as a Production Accountant for major studios and independent producers in the Motion Picture and Television Industry.
In addition to his work at the Ad Council to impact social change on a national level, Kroll is also committed to serving his community. He has volunteered in various leadership roles with the Forest Hill Community Association for over 7 years to safeguard quality of life issues for the residents of the Historic District in Newark NJ where he resides.
The Ad Council
The Ad Council brings together the most creative minds in advertising and media to address the most worthy causes. Its innovative, pro bono social good campaigns raise awareness. They inspire action. They save lives. To learn more, visit AdCouncil.org follow the Ad Council's communities on Facebook and Twitter , and view the creative on YouTube .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kenneth-kroll-named-chief-financial-officer-of-the-ad-council-300586186.html
SOURCE The Ad Council