DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- WEN – North Texas is pleased to announce its 2018 Board of Directors as follows:
President: Carly Hewett Vice President: Monica Pace Messick Secretary: Lindsay Grider Treasurer: Devon Howard Membership: Michelle Mora-Gonzales and Sarah Steward Programs: Brooke Granger and Sucheta Gokhale Special Events: Natalia Cordry and Amber Reed Communications: Afton Kolbe and Teresa Garza Public Relations: Jennifer Evans Sponsorship: Brianne Boutler and Thi Dao Leadership Conference: Gauri Gajewar and Haylee Edwards Executive Membership: Karen Potter and Kati Smith “The WEN – North Texas Board is looking forward to a great year,” said Carly Hewett, WEN – North Texas Chapter 2018 President. “We have some incredible things planned for this year. We have lined up a dynamic slate of speakers for our lunches that are held monthly both in Dallas and in Fort Worth in addition to hosting monthly networking social events at different locations throughout the Metroplex. WEN – North Texas mentoring circles will be accepting applications in the next few weeks for 2018. We are also excited about last year’s launch of our Executive Membership Program and continuing its expansion. WEN – North Texas will hold our 8th Annual Conference in June. We look forward to our ongoing partnership with a variety of organizations such as Girls Inc. and Girl Scouts which help encourage and foster young women to become the leaders of the future.”
Please join WEN – North Texas at one of our upcoming events.
The January Fort Worth Luncheon will be on Tuesday, January 16, 2018, at the Fort Worth Petroleum Club, 777 Main Street, 40 th Floor. Registration for the event will begin at 11:30 am followed by the luncheon from noon to 1pm. Jennifer deHey of Denbury Resources LLC is the guest speaker for this event and will be presenting a lecture titled “2018, Make a Different Mistake”.
Jen serves as Energy Manager at Denbury. She has 12 years of upstream operations experience between her years at Chevron and Denbury. Roles she has served include facilities, production, strategy, reservoir and management. Jen received her BS degree in Civil Engineering from Louisiana State University and MBA with a concentration in Finance from Southern Methodist University.
The January Dallas Luncheon will be held on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, at the Dallas Petroleum Club, 2300 Ross Avenue. Registration for the event will begin at 11:30 am followed by the luncheon from noon to 1pm. Tracey Rockett is the guest speaker for this event and will present on the following topic “Playing Politics Like a Girl: Leveraging Your Unique Abilities for Success in the Workplace”.
Tracey is an Associate Professor of Professional Practice at Texas Christian University where she teaches and leads workshops on a wide variety of topics including leadership, power & politics, negotiations, culture, and innovation. Tracey is an accomplished speaker and has delivered sessions across a number of industries and organizations including Energy Future Holdings, BDO, and SER National. She also serves as the Neeley Honors Faculty Associate Director and the TCU Koehler Center Distance Education Fellow. She earned a B.S. in Psychology from Texas A&M University and a Ph.D. in International Management Studies from UT Dallas.
The cost to attend WEN Luncheons is $30 for Members and $45 for Non-Members in advance, or $50 the day of the event, space permitting. Please register online at http://www.womensenergynetwork.org . Payment can be made by credit card through the online registration portal or the day of the event by cash or check payable to Women’s Energy Network North Texas.
WEN will also be holding their Annual Social Kick Off events. The Fort Worth Social will be held January 31, 2018 at City Works Eatery and Pour House, 5288 Monahans Avenue, from 6:00-8:00. The Dallas Social will be held in February at Times Ten Cellar (date to be determined). You do not need to be a member to attend the WEN Annual Kick Off Socials. All women who are currently working in the Energy Industry are invited to attend these complimentary events.
For more information about the above events or the Women’s Energy Network – North Texas Chapter, contact Jennifer Evans at jenniferevans@garnetenergyllc.com or visit the WEN website at www.wennorthtexas.org and click on WEN North Texas. Interested parties can join the North Texas Chapter by clicking Join Today! on the North Texas Chapter’s home page.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005663/en/
for Women’s Energy Network – North Texas Chapter
Jennifer Evans
jenniferevans@garnetenergyllc.com
Source: Women’s Energy Network – North Texas Chapter