Digital Media and Consumer expert strengthens leadership team at boutique TMT firm
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Altman Vilandrie & Company , a strategy consulting firm focused on the communications, media and related technology sectors, recently promoted Matt Rivet to principal. Rivet, who joined Altman Vilandrie & Company in 2010, advises the firm’s Telecommunications, Media and Technology (TMT) sector and private equity clients on a range of business and technology strategy issues. He is based in the firm’s Boston headquarters.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005941/en/
Altman Vilandrie & Company promotes Matt Rivet to principal. (Photo: Business Wire)
“Matt has made significant contributions to our growth over the past eight years and we are very pleased to welcome him to our leadership team,” said Altman Vilandrie & Company COO Steve Conway. “Matt’s expertise in video – both traditional TV and streaming technologies – reinforces a core focus area of our firm and has helped our clients meet their business objectives in that evolving space.”
At Altman Vilandrie & Company, Rivet’s strategy work focuses on go-to-market and product strategy for consumer wireless, wireline and video businesses. In particular, he has been a leader in digital media, helping to drive the annual Consumer Video survey, which focuses on consumer behaviors and attitudes around the traditional and OTT video ecosystems. In addition, Rivet advises data infrastructure and software clients on a number of strategic issues.
Rivet earned a Bachelor of Science in Economics and a MBA from the Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics at the University of New Hampshire in Durham. A New Hampshire native, he is active in the Seacoast region business community.
About Altman Vilandrie & Company
Altman Vilandrie & Company is a strategy consulting group that focuses on the telecom, media, technology and investor sectors. The company’s consultants are experienced in strategy, marketing, finance, M&A, technology, regulatory and operations disciplines. Based in Boston, with offices in New York City and San Francisco, Altman Vilandrie & Company enables clients to seize new opportunities, navigate mounting challenges, improve business performance, and increase investor value within complex and converging industries.
Ninety percent of the boutique firm’s operator clients are large- to mid-cap companies including service providers, technology and software developers, and media companies. Altman Vilandrie & Company’s financial clients include many of the largest and most prominent investors in the telecom, media and technology markets.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005941/en/
For Altman Vilandrie & Company
Cort Boulanger, 339-222-2442
cortboulanger@gmail.com
Source: Altman Vilandrie & Company