EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Griffin Capital Company, LLC (“Griffin Capital”) announced today that its dealer-manager, Griffin Capital Securities, LLC (“GCS”) added industry veteran, Adam Hanson, to its roster of seasoned territory sales consultants. Mr. Hanson joins as Senior Vice President and covers the Independent Broker-Dealer Channel in Florida. He brings with him a wealth of experience having held senior positions with Goldman Sachs and Highland Capital. At Goldman, Hanson served as Senior Analyst, Private Equity for three years before he transitioned to sales distribution roles at Highland Capital. At Highland, he covered all channels representing the firm's mutual funds, ETFs and alternative products. As GCS’s representative, Mr. Hanson will support existing Griffin Capital relationships, while also developing new opportunities for distribution of Griffin Capital’s various alternative investment products.
Griffin Capital hires Adam Hanson
“We could not be more pleased that Adam has agreed to join our team,” said Cory Calvert, National Sales Director. “With his strong background in the industry and his track record of success, he will be a valuable asset to our team as we continue to further expand our relationships within the independent broker-dealer channel and grow our highly successful lineup of alternative investment offerings, including our industry-leading interval funds.”
The addition of Mr. Hanson comes on the heels of Griffin Capital’s recent press release announcing the restructuring of GCS’s distribution team toward a channelized distribution model in which it bifurcated its sales team into two groups, one covering the independent broker-dealer market and the other the wirehouse and registered investment advisor (“RIA”) channels.
“Our recent reorganization to a channelized approach has enabled us to augment our sales organization with sought-after industry veterans, including three highly-respected executive leaders and four new external wholesalers; Adam is our fifth,” said Mark Goldberg, CEO, Griffin Capital Securities. “These professionals bring significant expertise to their roles at Griffin and are integral in our commitment to remain a leader in our industry.”
About Griffin Capital Company, LLC
Griffin Capital Company, LLC ("Griffin Capital") is a leading alternative investment asset manager with nearly $10 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2017. Founded in 1995, the privately held firm is led by a seasoned team of senior executives with more than two decades of investment and real estate experience and who collectively have executed more than 650 transactions valued at over $22 billion.
The firm manages, sponsors or co-sponsors a suite of carefully curated, institutional quality investment solutions distributed by Griffin Capital Securities, LLC to retail investors through a community of partners, including independent and insurance broker-dealers, wirehouses, registered investment advisory firms and the financial advisors who work with these enterprises.
Additional information is available at www.griffincapital.com .
Jennifer Nahas
Vice President, Marketing
Griffin Capital Company
jnahas@griffincapital.com
Office Phone: 949-270-9332
Cell Phone: 949-433-6860
Julius Buchanan / Joseph Kuo
Haven Tower Group LLC
424 652 6520, ext. 114 / 424 652 6520, ext. 101
jbuchanan@haventower.com or jkuo@haventower.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/22ac796e-112c-4755-836d-e9a6b3f8acc6
Source:Griffin Capital