NASHVILLE, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cumberland Consulting Group announces the promotion of 10-year company veteran Chris Miller to partner. Miller joins the leadership team of Cumberland’s Provider Division and will be leading the multi-year enterprise Epic implementation for the University of Vermont Health Network. Previously, Miller served as principal for the company.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006258/en/
Chris Miller (Photo: Business Wire)
“Chris has made significant contributions to Cumberland over the past decade, successfully leading some of our high-profile projects for health systems,” said Brian Cahill , CEO of Cumberland Consulting Group. “In addition to his expanded role on the leadership team, he will continue to serve as a trusted adviser for our provider clients.”
Miller has extensive experience in leading strategic, enterprisewide IT projects for some of the country’s largest providers. He specializes in leading clients through the strategic planning and execution of healthcare IT initiatives, including budgeting, resource planning and project management. Prior to joining Cumberland, Miller was a member of Epic’s implementation services team.
“I’m honored to join the ranks of the leadership team of this growing organization,” Miller said. “And, I am especially excited to continue working with the Cumberland team to help our provider clients meet their goals.”
Miller holds a Bachelor of Science degree in public health from Johns Hopkins University and is an active member of his local community of Atlanta.
About Cumberland Consulting Group
Founded in 2004, Cumberland Consulting Group is a leading healthcare consulting and services firm that helps some of the nation’s largest payer, provider and life sciences organizations implement and optimize technologies to maximize operational efficiency. We offer our clients comprehensive consulting services with a focus on strategic advisory, implementation, optimization and outsourcing. For more information, visit www.cumberlandcg.com or follow us on Twitter at @CumberlandCG .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006258/en/
Cumberland Consulting Group
Jennifer Montlary, 615-373-4470
Jennifer.Montlary@cumberlandcg.com
Source: Cumberland Consulting Group