Santa Monica, CA, Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- BioSig Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: BSGM), a medical device company developing a proprietary biomedical signal processing platform designed to address an unmet technology need for the $4.6 billion electrophysiology (EP) marketplace, today announced that Mr. Steven (Steve) Chaussy will be joining the company to serve in the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Chaussy brings over 30 years of financial and operating experience to the Company. Prior to joining BioSig Technologies, Mr. Chaussy has been the sole proprietor of Anna & Co., Inc., a consulting company that offers financial and accounting services to small publicly traded companies. Mr. Chaussy has an extensive entrepreneurial growth and development background learned from working for Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P., a subsidiary of Penske Corporation, where his improvements of management and reporting tools have allowed the company to double in size. During his career, Mr. Chaussy also served as Chief Financial Officer to a number of private and public companies. The systems introduced by Mr. Chaussy have been key drivers of profitability and development of international business lines. Mr. Chaussy is a CPA and received his degree in Accounting from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
In his role as CFO, Mr Chaussy will be responsible for ensuring the financial organization required to support the Company’s aggressive growth strategy while establishing a strong foundation for long-term progress.
"Steve has been supporting BioSig from the very beginning of our journey. As we step up our efforts towards commercialization, we needed a highly experienced, full-time CFO with the strong expertise in supporting emerging growth companies and successfully managing rapidly developing environments,” stated Mr. Kenneth Londoner, Chairman & CEO of BioSig Technologies, Inc. “Steve’s ability to navigate complex markets is a definite value-add in both our pre-commercial activities and future growth of our organization.”
“I am both honored and excited to be joining the BioSig team at such a key point in their trajectory,” said Steven Chaussy. “I am impressed with the company current assets, management team and near-term commercialization prospects. I look forward to contributing to the future success of the Company.”
About BioSig Technologies
BioSig Technologies is a medical device company developing a proprietary biomedical signal processing technology designed to improve the $4.6 billion electrophysiology (EP) marketplace ( www.biosigtech.com ). Led by a proven management team and a veteran, independent Board of Directors, Los Angeles-based BioSig Technologies is preparing to commercialize its PURE EP(TM) System. The technology has been developed to address an unmet need in a large and growing market.
The Company’s first product, PURE EP(TM) System, is a novel cardiac signal acquisition and display system which is engineered to assist electrophysiologists in clinical decision making during procedures to diagnose and treat patients with abnormal heart rates and rhythms. BioSig’s main goal is to deliver technology to improve upon catheter ablation treatments for the prevalent and deadly arrhythmias, Atrial Fibrillation and Ventricular Tachycardia. BioSig has partnered with Minnetronix on technology development and is working toward FDA 510(k) clearance for the PURE EP System.
Forward-looking Statements
This press release contains “forward-looking statements.” Such statements may be preceded by the words “intends,” “may,” “will,” “plans,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “predicts,” “estimates,” “aims,” “believes,” “hopes,” “potential” or similar words. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, are based on certain assumptions and are subject to various known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, and cannot be predicted or quantified and consequently, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, risks and uncertainties associated with (i) our inability to manufacture our product candidates on a commercial scale on our own, or in collaboration with third parties; (ii) difficulties in obtaining financing on commercially reasonable terms; (iii) changes in the size and nature of our competition; (iv) loss of one or more key executives or scientists; and (v) difficulties in securing regulatory approval to market our product candidates. More detailed information about the Company and the risk factors that may affect the realization of forward-looking statements is set forth in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Investors and security holders are urged to read these documents free of charge on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov . The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Contact: Natasha Russkina BioSig Technologies, Inc. VP Business Development & Corporate Finance nrusskina@biosigtech.com +41 (0) 76 823 7527
Source:BioSig Technologies, Inc.