CENTENNIAL, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Arrow Electronics, Inc. (NYSE:ARW) announced today the successful completion of its acquisition of eInfochips , one of the world’s largest design and managed services companies.
eInfochips is headquartered in San Jose, Calif., with locations in India and Europe, and has 1,500 IoT solution architects, engineers, and software development resources globally. eInfochips’ breadth of capabilities spans chip design, to product and IoT solution delivery, and across many industries, from retail and consumer, to industrial automation, healthcare, and aerospace.
Arrow Electronics ( www.arrow.com ) is a global provider of products, services and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions. Arrow serves as a supply channel partner for more than 125,000 original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers and commercial customers through a global network of more than 465 locations in 90 countries.
Safe Harbor
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. This press release includes forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or facts to differ materially from such statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: our ability to expand our capabilities and offerings; our ability to deliver more and enhanced solutions; our ability to retain eInfochips’ employees; our ability to maintain and grow eInfochips’ sales and profits; and the other risks described from time to time in the company’s reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q). Forward-looking statements are those statements which are not statements of historical fact. Forward-looking statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “may,” “will,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions. Shareholders and other readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any of the forward-looking statements.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006280/en/
Arrow Electronics, Inc.
Steven O’Brien
Vice President, Investor Relations
303-824-4544
or
Media Contact:
John Hourigan
Vice President, Global Communications
303-824-4586
Source: Arrow Electronics, Inc.