The most popular photos of Airbnb listings taken by guests last year included adventurous accommodations like a dreamy treehouse in Atlanta and a penthouse offering 360-degree views in Cape Town, South Africa. Other popular rentals included cozy cabins, waterfront dwellings and urban digs.
Below are Airbnb's most-liked listings on Instagram in 2017. Warning: You may experience some serious travel envy.
Tye Haus, Skykomish, Washington 
This photo of an A-frame cabin listing in Skykomish, Washington racked up 47,700 likes on Airbnb's Instagram. The rental — which accommodates six guests with its two bedrooms and five beds — is charging $170 per night, and is described as being located in the private, cabin community of Timber Lane Village near Steven's Pass ski resort.
The Little Owl Cabin at Mt. Rainier, Packwood, Washington 
The Little Owl Cabin , described as a, "Pacific Northwest A-frame cabin fantasy," garnered 47,400 likes. It's located in Packwood, Washington, 20 minutes from Mt. Rainier National Park and White Pass Ski Area, as well as two and half hours from Seattle and Portland.
The cabin, which accommodates six guests, is currently listed at $229 per night.
Lake house, Lutsen, Minnesota 
Located on the shore of Lake Superior in Lutsen, Minnesota, this Airbnb is in a scenic wooded area and shows off artwork from local artists.
"The house features sweeping lake views from all three bedrooms, a creek and bridge, two private pebble beeches, kayaks, and beautiful trees," the listing states .
Currently, the rental, whose post has 46,000 likes, is charging $365 per night and accommodates eight guests.
Apartment, Tulum, Quintana Roo, Mexico 
One of Airbnb's most-liked (44,100) Instagram photos is an apartment located in Tulum, Mexico.
"From the waterfall wall filled with orchids, thirty year old interesting trees, the Indian monastery door, rounded corners, pleasing colours and a crystal clear clean mini pool surrounded by a white mayan rock walls, the view are beautiful and the feeling is peaceful," reads the listing.
The best part? Its current rate of $56 per night.
Treehouse, Atlanta, Georgia 
Photos of this treehouse in Atlanta appear twice on Airbnb's list of most-liked Instagram posts (with this one racking up 42,800). 
The space is a suite of three rooms connected by rope-bridges. Antique furnishings and artifacts can be found in a sitting room, the listing states, while the bed comes equipped with wheels so it can be rolled out onto a platform overlooking a stream below. The treehouse also boasts a hammock deck, which surrounds a 165-year-old Southern Short-Leaf Pine tree.
It accommodates two guests and is currently priced at $375 per night.
Vondel House, Amsterdam, the Netherlands 
The photo of this Airbnb listing has 42,800 likes and scores of adoring comments on Instagram. The apartment is described as a "lovely, warm home" and is located near a number of Amsterdam hot spots including Leidseplein, Museumplein and the Vondelpark. 
The apartment can accommodate four guests with a current rate of $288 per night.
Apartment, Paris, France 
Another most-liked (42,400) European Airbnb is this cozy apartment in Paris, described as "lovely and bright." It has views of the Sacré -Coeur, or the Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Paris and is located in a lively neighborhood close to the Gare du Nord station.
The apartment is currently priced at $138 per night and accommodates two guests.
Cliff House, Mollymook, New South Wales, Australia 
The photo of this popular, Australian Airbnb listing won 38,500 likes for its sensational, waterfront views.The top-floor apartment, nicknamed "Cliff House," is located in Mollymook Beach in New South Wales, Australia.
The space can accommodate six guests and is currently going for $329 a night.
Penthouse, Cape Town, South Africa 
Located in Cape Town, South Africa, this penthouse has 38,300 likes for its 360-degree city and ocean views, as well as Cape Town sights like Signal Hill, Lion's Head and Table Mountain, according to its Airbnb listing. There's also a private roof-deck, as well as a plunge pool.
The apartment accommodates three guests and is currently priced at $168 per night.
Don't miss: With a weakening U.S. dollar, here's where to travel to make the most of your money 
show chapters Travel trends: 2018 looks strong for the tourism industry      4:29 PM ET Fri, 29 Dec 2017 | 03:00 Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook !