WAYLAND, Mass., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Analgesic Solutions LLC, a company that focuses on increasing assay sensitivity in the conduct of pain clinical trials through consulting, innovative tools and training, announced today the appointment of Jacqueline Delfgaauw, Ph.D., to the position of Executive Director, Clinical Science. Dr. Delfgaauw's extensive experience in the clinical development of various products focused in pain will be a critical to Analgesic Solutions' ongoing success and rapid expansion going forward.
Dr. Delfgaauw was most recently the proprietor of DELFGAAUW, LLC, a company focused on clinical operations consulting. Prior to that, Dr. Delfgaauw spent 10 plus years in various senior roles at Grunenthal, including leading clinical development for Latin America, the U.S. and Canada at various times.
"Jacqueline Delfgaauw, Ph.D. comes to Analgesic Solutions with over 15 years of experience focused exclusively on the clinical development of analgesics. Dr. Delfgaauw has developed and overseen innumerable product development programs in the pain space in markets around the world," said Chief Executive Officer, Nathaniel Katz, M.D., M.S. "As Executive Director, Clinical Science at Analgesic Solutions, Dr. Delfgaauw will be a key member of our senior management team leading our clinical development efforts, particularly as it relates to our platform Quantitative Data Surveillance System (QDSS)."
ABOUT ANALGESIC SOLUTIONS
Analgesic Solutions, LLC., founded in 2006, is a privately held company focused on increasing assay sensitivity in the conduct of pain clinical trials through consulting, innovative tools and technology, and training. Our team, with Nathaniel Katz M.D., M.S., serving as our foremost expert, helps clients develop and commercialize better treatments for pain. With hundreds of projects completed and ongoing collaborations with regulatory authorities, Analgesic Solutions is the expert at identifying and mitigating the random and systematic errors that lead to negative clinical trials.
http://analgesicsolutions.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jacqueline-delfgaauw-phd-joins-analgesic-solutions-as-executive-director-clinical-science-300576427.html
SOURCE Analgesic Solutions