ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA) announced today that four top retail executives have been selected to join the association's Board of Directors in an election that took place during the Board's semi-annual meeting, held Sunday in Tucson, Arizona. In addition, RILA welcomed a new Board Chairman, Brian Cornell, chairman and chief executive officer of Target Corporation. Cornell, who succeeds former Chairman Bill Rhodes of AutoZone, will serve a two-year term.
New to the association's Board of Directors are:
Gina Boswell, President, Customer Development, Unilever Mark Breitbard, President & Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic, Gap Inc. Michele Buck, President & Chief Executive Officer, The Hershey Co. Richard Keyes, President & Chief Executive Officer, Meijer, Inc.
"The past year was one of tremendous change in retail as we saw fundamental shifts in where and how people choose to shop. We also saw firsthand the power of our industry when we find common ground and advocate for consumers. As RILA's Chairman, I'm looking forward to the opportunity to build upon our shared successes and help drive positive change for our customers, our teams and our industry," said Brian Cornell, chairman and chief executive officer, Target Corporation.
For a full Q&A with Brian Cornell about his upcoming chairmanship, click here .
"RILA is fortunate to be led by such an exceptional Board of Directors. Our success is in large part a result of their commitment to collaborate with one another and provide us with critical insights and direction," said RILA President Sandy Kennedy. "We're thrilled to welcome four additional Board members this year and we're confident that we will continue to accomplish great things under Brian's leadership."
The 2018 RILA Board of Directors:
Brian Cornell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Target Corporation (Chairman) Mary Dillon, Chief Executive Officer, ULTA Beauty (Vice Chairman) Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, AutoZone, Inc. (Immediate Past Chairman) James Myers, Chairman, Petco Holdings, Inc. (Treasurer) Robert Niblock, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Lowe's Companies, Inc. (Secretary) Gina Boswell, President, Customer Development, Unilever* Mark Breitbard, President & Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic, Gap Inc.* Shelley Broader, President & Chief Executive Officer, Chico's FAS, Inc. Michele Buck, President & Chief Executive Officer, The Hershey Co.* James Dinkins, President, Coca-Cola North America, The Coca-Cola Company Marvin Ellison, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, J.C. Penney Company, Inc. Alexander Gourlay, Co-Chief Operating Officer, Walgreens Boot Alliance and President, Walgreen Co. Alan Hoskins, Chief Executive Officer, Energizer Holdings, Inc. Joe Jensen, Vice President, Internet of Things Group, and General Manager, Retail Solutions Division, Intel Corporation Richard Johnson, President & Chief Executive Officer, Foot Locker, Inc. Hubert Joly, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Best Buy Co., Inc. Richard Keyes, President & Chief Executive Officer, Meijer, Inc.* Stephen Laughlin, Vice President & Global Industry Leader, Retail, IBM Corporation Craig Menear, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & President, The Home Depot, Inc. Michael Polk, Chief Executive Officer, Newell Brands Steve Rendle, President & Chief Executive Officer, VF Corporation Gregory Sandfort, Chief Executive Officer, Tractor Supply Company Jill Standish, Senior Managing Director, Global Retail Consulting Practice, Accenture Todd Vasos, Chief Executive Officer, Dollar General Corporation Sandra Kennedy, President, Retail Industry Leaders Association
*Denotes Newly Elected Member
RILA is the trade association of the world's largest and most innovative retail companies. RILA members include more than 200 retailers, product manufacturers, and service suppliers, which together account for more than $1.5 trillion in annual sales, millions of American jobs and more than 100,000 stores, manufacturing facilities and distribution centers domestically and abroad.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/target-ceo-brian-cornell-to-chair-rila-board-of-directors-300585883.html
SOURCE Retail Industry Leaders Association