Corporate footprint expands to the Midwest USA
TORONTO, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - On January 1 st , 2018, Citron Hygiene LP completed the acquisition of Hygiene Solutions Inc., a Chicago-based company, that provides Washroom Hygiene Services to the Midwest US.
Marc Clemans, along with his wife Tiffany and an outstanding group of employees, grew Hygiene Solutions into the largest washroom services provider in the Midwest market.
"We are delighted to have Hygiene Solutions join the Citron Hygiene family," Peter Farrell, Citron Hygiene CEO stated. "After our recent acquisition of Workplace Essentials in the US Northeast, it made sense to expand into the Midwest and continue to grow our footprint across the US. Hygiene Solution's reputation for providing excellent service fits Citron's maxim and I know it will be a great partnership."
Marc Clemans , President & CEO of Hygiene Solutions Inc., adds, "This opportunity came at a time when I wasn't looking to sell. But after getting reacquainted with Peter Farrell, I felt that joining the Citron team was a great opportunity for our staff and to expand the Midwest market. I feel that this venture will allow us to bring new products and services to our current and future customers."
Both Marc Clemans, Hygiene Solutions and Peter Farrell, Citron Hygiene state, "We are both excited about the acquisition and merging of our resources. The combined expertise will greatly benefit the customers of both companies." In due time, Hygiene Solutions will rebrand to Citron Hygiene and its leadership team will become an integral part of our US operations.
Citron Hygiene remains highly acquisitive in both Canada and the United States in the Washroom Hygiene, Pest Control and Warewashing service platforms.
About Citron Hygiene
Citron Hygiene in partnership with President & CEO Peter Farrell and other senior management, is a Birch Hill Equity Partners ("Birch Hill") portfolio company. With over $3 billion in capital under management, Birch Hill invests in leading Canadian middle-market businesses. "Acquisitions, like this, will continue to play an important role in Citron Hygiene's strategic plans, complementing organic growth and further enhancing our position as a market leader in Building healthy spaces," says Farrell.
Citron Hygiene is a leading provider of commercial Washroom & Food Service Hygiene, Pest Control Solutions, Warewash & Chemical solutions and a broad range of other Facility-based Products & Services. With over 40 years of extensive industry experience, they have offices across Canada and the United States.
SOURCE Citron Hygiene