SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Bank of the West today announced the appointment of Tami Farrow to the position of Executive Vice President, Head of Channel Administration for the Retail Banking Group. She will be responsible for leading the Bank's Retail Channel Strategy, Planning and Administration, Controls and Governance, Operations Risk, Branch Optimization and Group Operations functions, and replaces Beth Hale, who was promoted to Head of Product & Payments Solutions at the Bank earlier this year.
Farrow has nearly 20 years of financial services experience and was most recently head of Retail Sales Strategy and Communications at TD Bank. She will be based out of Bank of the West's San Ramon office and will report to Ryan Bailey, Executive Vice President, Head of the Retail Banking Group.
"Tami's strategic capabilities – paired with her deep experience in financial services – are the ideal combination to lead the future of our retail strategy and planning," Bailey said. "She is a perfect fit for this role and I'm glad she's joining my retail banking leadership team."
Farrow's career spans more than 12 years at TD Bank, where she led Retail Sales Strategy and Communications. Prior to that, she spent several years in various Product roles. She has also held leadership roles in Finance at American Express and was a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Farrow received her Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics from The College of New Jersey and her MBA in Finance and Management from Columbia Business School.
For more information about Bank of the West, visit BankoftheWest.com and The Blog .
About Bank of the West
Bank of the West is a financial services company headquartered in San Francisco with $89.8 billion in assets as of September 30, 2017. Founded in 1874, Bank of the West provides a wide range of personal, commercial, wealth management and international banking services through more than 600 branches and offices in 23 states and digital channels. Bank of the West is a subsidiary of BNP Paribas, a leading bank in Europe, which has a presence in 74 countries with more than 192,000 employees. To learn more about Bank of the West, visit About Us via BankoftheWest.com .
Deposit and loan products offered by Bank of the West, Member FDIC and Equal Housing Lender. ©2018 Bank of the West. In South Dakota, Bank of the West operates under the name Bank of the West California
Connect with us
Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin Instagram Blog
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bank-of-the-west-appoints-tami-farrow-as-executive-vice-president-head-of-channel-administration-for-the-retail-banking-group-300590391.html
SOURCE Bank of the West