OVERLAND PARK, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc. (NYSE: WDR) is expected to announce fourth quarter financial and operational results before the market opens on Tuesday, January 30, 2018 and host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. Eastern to discuss the quarterly results and answer investors’ questions.
We encourage participants to pre-register for the conference call using the following link: http://dpregister.com/10114947 . Callers who pre-register will be given dial-in instructions and a unique PIN to gain immediate access to the call. You may register now, or at any time prior to the call. The call will be simultaneously webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.waddell.com .
Individuals who do not have internet access, or are otherwise unable to pre-register for this event, may still participate by dialing (844) 308-6434 and asking the operator to join them to the “Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc.” call.
Individuals unable to join the conference call at the scheduled time can access a replay that will be available shortly after the conclusion of the call for seven days. The replay can be accessed by dialing (877) 344-7529 and entering conference number 10114947, or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.
A copy of the press release, along with supplemental data schedules, will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the public release of our quarterly results.
About the Company
Waddell & Reed, Inc., founded in 1937, is one of the oldest mutual fund complexes in the United States, having introduced the Waddell & Reed Advisors Group of Mutual Funds in 1940. Today, we distribute our investment products through the retail unaffiliated distribution channel (encompassing broker/dealer, retirement, and registered investment advisors), our retail broker-dealer channel (through financial advisors), and our Institutional channel (including defined benefit plans, pension plans and endowments, and our subadvisory partnership with Mackenzie in Canada).
Through its subsidiaries, Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc. provides investment management and financial planning services to clients throughout the United States and internationally. Waddell & Reed Investment Management Company serves as investment adviser to the Waddell & Reed Advisors Group of Mutual Funds, while Ivy Investment Management Company serves as investment adviser to Ivy Funds, Ivy NextShares, Ivy Variable Insurance Portfolios and InvestEd Portfolios, and investment adviser and global distributor to the Ivy Global Investors SICAV, an umbrella UCITS fund range domiciled in Luxembourg. Waddell & Reed, Inc. serves as principal underwriter and distributor to the Waddell & Reed Advisors Group of Mutual Funds and InvestEd Portfolios, while Ivy Distributors, Inc. serves as principal underwriter and distributor to Ivy Funds and Ivy Variable Insurance Portfolios.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005199/en/
Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc.
Nicole Russell, 913-236-1880
VP, Investor Relations
Source: Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc.