DURHAM, N.C., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- First, a real estate technology company, announced today the newest addition to its executive team, Kent Keirsey. A West Point and Stanford University Graduate School of Business graduate, as well as former Army Ranger, Keirsey brings a unique blend of strong leadership and business acumen to the team. Prior to joining First, Keirsey co-founded Collective Health, a Silicon Valley based healthcare technology company, growing the company to over 300 people and raising over $150m in capital. He held several executive roles there and built and led the people, legal, and operations teams.
This is a critical hire for First at a time of rapid growth. Keirsey will be responsible for creating an environment and company structure where the growing team and its customers continue to flourish. He will also build out teams and systems that support First's expanding product offerings for top real estate agents.
First is an intelligence-driven platform that helps real estate agents connect with homeowners who are likely to sell before their competition. First Conversations, their mobile app, turns an agent's contact list into simple workflows constantly prioritized by the highest ROI activity. First Appointments, their newest service, handles back-and-forth scheduling for agents so they can just show up to meetings with people in their network every week. The entire platform is powered by big data about 215 million people across the US, and machine learning algorithms that provide agents a 4x return on their time.
"My job is to build the strongest possible team at First," said First CEO Mike Schneider. "Kent brings proven executive experience at a rapidly growing company. He has a track record of leading teams to solve complex problems and building vibrant cultures. I am very excited for him to join First and expect him to bring a level of operational excellence to the organization that will serve as a sustainable competitive advantage."
"Real estate agents are the consummate American entrepreneurs. My mission as COO is to provide them with the tech tools and support that allow them to do what they do best" said First Chief Operating Officer, Kent Keirsey. "We win when our agents win - by empowering them to spend time with the right prospects, win listings, and sell more homes."
By focusing real estate agents' efforts on the right people at the right time, First allows agents to win more business by fostering genuine connections. Agents can feel comfortable spending their time catching up with contacts on a phone call, over coffee or at a lunch, because they know that these efforts reinforce the relationships in a strategic manner -- when they are most likely to lead to a listing.
About First
Founded in 2015, First broke through the real estate technology landscape with a unique combination of big data and best practice in relationship marketing. Their technology helps real estate professionals get more transactions from the relationships they've built and avoid the pain of missing opportunities in their network.
Media Contact: Joel McLean, Marketing Manager, joel@first.io , 919.748.9385
First
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/first-strengthens-executive-bench-with-silicon-valley-leadership-300581073.html
SOURCE First