January 18, 2018 / 11:13 AM / Updated 5 minutes ago California parents starved 13 children, taunted them with pie: prosecutor Tori Richards 3 Min Read 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. (Reuters) - The California parents accused of imprisoning their 13 children in the family’s squalid home beat, starved and chained them to their beds for years, taunting them with apple pie, according to a prosecutor on Thursday who called it a case of “human depravity.” 
The father, 57-year-old David Turpin, is also accused of sexually abusing one of his young daughters, Riverside   Mike Hestrin told reporters in announcing the charges before the couple’s first court appearance later on Thursday. 
“A case like that sticks with you and haunts you,” Hestrin said. “Sometimes in this business you are faced with human depravity, and that’s what we have here.” 
Turpin and his wife, Louise, 49, each face 94 years to life in prison if convicted on the more than two dozen charges that include torture, child abuse and false imprisonment 
The couple was arrested on Sunday, and the conditions in their home in Perris, California, discovered after their emaciated 17-year-old daughter climbed out of a window of the family home and called police. 
“The 17-year-old victim that escaped has been working on a plan with the siblings to escape this abuse for more than two years,” Hestrin said. “She escaped through a window and took one of her siblings with her. That sibling eventually ... became frightened and turned back.” Riverside   Mike Hestrin announces charges against David Turpin, 56, and Louise Turpin, 49, in Riverside, California U.S. January 18, 2018. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson 
Hestrin said that the couple may have unlocked two of their children after police arrived at the family home but a 22-year-old remained chained to a bed. 
He said the victims were chained for weeks or even months at a time, not released even to use the bathroom. They were allowed to shower only once or twice a year and given little food. A combination photo of David Allen Turpin (L) and Louise Ann Turpin as they appear in booking photos provided by the Riverside County Sheriff's Department in Riverside County, California, U.S., January 15, 2018. Riverside County Sheriff's Department/Handout via REUTERS 
“The parents would apparently buy food for themselves and not allow the children to eat it,” Hestrin said. “They would buy food, including pies, apple pies, pumpkin pies, leave it on the counter, let the children look at it but not eat the food.” 
The family moved from the Fort Worth, Texas, area to Murrieta, California, in 2010, and then moved again to nearby Perris in 2014, Hestrin said. 
The California Department of Education lists the Perris address, where the family has lived since 2014, as the location of the Sandcastle Day School, with David Turpin as principal. 
Hestrin suggested the schooling was deficient, however, as many of the siblings lacked basic knowledge about such things as police officers and medication. Reporting and writing by Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Additional reporting by Gina Cherelus   Cynthia Osterman