WILLOW GROVE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Imperial Dade has acquired the assets of PCA Industrial & Paper Supplies, Inc. (“PCA”). The transaction represents the fourteenth acquisition for Imperial Dade, a leading national distributor of disposable food service and janitorial supplies, under the leadership of Robert and Jason Tillis, CEO and President of Imperial Dade, respectively.
Based in Willow Grove, PA, PCA is a distributor of paper products, janitorial supplies and cleaning equipment serving the Philadelphia metropolitan area. For Imperial Dade, the acquisition of PCA strengthens the Company’s presence in the Mid-Atlantic and bolsters the company’s ability to serve its existing customer base in Philadelphia.
Gary Rubin, CEO of PCA, said, “We are excited about the future of PCA under the leadership of Imperial Dade. Our customers can expect the same great service and responsiveness with access to a broader product offering going forward.”
“We enthusiastically welcome the PCA team members to Imperial Dade and look forward to working together to grow the business further,” said Robert Tillis. “PCA’s commitment to its customers and dedicated staff make it a great addition to the Imperial Dade platform.”
Jason Tillis said, “Our vision at Imperial Dade is to grow strategically through both organic initiatives and add-on acquisitions. The acquisition of PCA is another step towards creating the nation’s leading provider of foodservice disposables and janitorial supplies.”
About Imperial Dade
Founded in 1935, Imperial Dade is a leading distributor of disposable food service and janitorial supplies in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, and Midwest regions and Puerto Rico. Since CEO Robert Tillis and President Jason Tillis assumed their roles in 2007, the company has grown both organically and through acquisitions to become a leader in the disposable food service and janitorial supplies industry. For additional information, please visit www.imperialdade.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006383/en/
Imperial Dade
Paul Cervino, 201-437-7440
Source: Imperial Dade