SEATTLE, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- MedBridge, an industry-leading developer of patient engagement and clinical education software, recently moved back across Seattle's Lake Union in order to accommodate for the rapid expansion of their workforce in 2017 and their ambitious plans for 2018.
The new office quadruples their previous Eastlake neighborhood office in order to meet the demands of a team that swelled from a dedicated staff of 30 in 2015, to nearly 100 full time employees. A past winner of GeekWire's Bootstrapper of the Year and Inc 500, MedBridge shows no signs of slowing down with the 25,000 ft 2 new space being selected due to its capacity to house 50 more employees.
Coming off a banner year in which the company experienced over 45% revenue growth, MedBridge will look to substantially add to their workforce in 2018 with a focus on all areas, including sales and software development. The company's planned expansion of their Learning Management System, EMR/EHR interoperability, launch of their Marketing Automation platform, and continued roll-out of their Net Promoter ® Score product, will drive an increase in open technical roles in the new year.
The 2017 silver winner of Seattle Business Magazine's Award for Enterprise, MedBridge is also expanding its enterprise client footprint by adding nursing education and patient engagement resources to its platform. This expansion alone will add nearly three million new potential customers, and thousands more organizations. Current home health, skilled nursing, and long-term care offerings will also be expanded in 2018. With its strong growth trajectory, MedBridge was selected by GeekWire as one of the top three private healthcare companies to look out for in 2018.
"The new office and dramatic growth we've seen in 2017 is a testament to the hard work, passion, and commitment our employees demonstrate on a daily basis," announced Justin Kowalchuk, MedBridge Founder & CEO. "2017 was a tremendous step forward for our company and confirms the industry-altering impact our products are having on the lives of millions of patients and nearly a hundred thousand providers nationwide."
Sitting at the intersection of Westlake Ave. and 8th Ave., the new office features sweeping views of Lake Union, Capitol Hill, and downtown Seattle. From its current location, the company's two prior offices can be seen, a subtle reminder of the company's exponential growth over the past six years.
Interested in helping continue the success in 2018? MedBridge is hiring .
New Address:
1633 Westlake Ave N, Suite #200
Seattle, WA, 98109
Media Contact
Jeremy Blazar
jeremy@medbridgeed.com
(206) 216-5003
Related Images
image1.jpg
image2.jpg
image3.jpg
image4.jpg
Related Links
MedBridge
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/medbridge-relocates-to-larger-office-to-accommodate-its-continued-strong-growth-300586375.html
SOURCE MedBridge