AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Spiceworks today announced J. Scott Di Valerio joined the company as chief operating and financial officer. Scott will oversee the continued scaling of Spiceworks revenue and finance organizations as well as the company's day-to-day operations.
"Strong financial and operational leadership is crucial as we continue building the platform millions of IT buyers and hundreds of technology brands use to connect and do their jobs," said Jay Hallberg, CEO and co-founder of Spiceworks. "Scott's experience and passion will be instrumental as we pursue the opportunities in front us and work to achieve our long-term vision."
Scott has more than 30 years of executive management, operations, and finance experience at leading technology brands, most recently as the CFO at RetailMeNot, Inc. Prior to RetailMeNot, Scott was CEO of Outerwall after serving as CFO. Other roles include president of the Americas for the Lenovo Group Limited, executive positions at Microsoft, including corporate vice president of the OEM division, corporate vice president of finance and administration, and chief accounting officer. Scott has also served in executive positions at The Walt Disney Company and Mindwave Software Inc., and as a partner at PwC.
"Spiceworks has an opportunity to impact every business in the world by giving technology buyers and sellers the resources they need to do their jobs," said Scott Di Valerio. "I'm excited to join a company that is rooted in creating meaningful relationships with its users and customers, values its people, and has an incredibly unique opportunity to lead in this highly innovative industry."
J. Scott Di Valerio represents the third seasoned executive to join Spiceworks leadership team since mid-2017. Others include Executive Director of People and Talent Kathy Marshall, and SVP of Product and Engineering Manish Dixit.
About Spiceworks
Spiceworks is the platform that connects the IT industry to help technology buyers and sellers get their jobs done, every day. The company empowers the world's businesses to find, adopt, and manage the latest technologies while also helping IT brands build, market, and support better products and services. Founded in 2006 and headquartered in Austin, Texas, Spiceworks makes IT easy, and enjoyable, for everyone. For more information, visit http://www.spiceworks.com .
Connect with Spiceworks on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/Spiceworks and follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/spiceworks .
Spiceworks is a registered trademark of Spiceworks, Inc. All other names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
Media Contact:
Risa Kleen
Spiceworks
press@spiceworks.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/spiceworks-hires-j-scott-di-valerio-as-chief-operating-and-financial-officer-300582372.html
SOURCE Spiceworks