BAR HARBOR, Maine--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Marion Colombo has joined Bar Harbor Bank & Trust as Executive Vice President of Retail Delivery, effective February 12, 2018. Ms. Colombo joins Bar Harbor Bank & Trust with over 30 years of experience in retail banking. She is responsible for retail strategy and delivery and will work closely with our teams to ensure that customers experience consistently outstanding service across all 49 locations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.
Ms. Colombo most recently served as Market President - Retail, Greater Boston and Rhode Island Market, for TD Bank. “Marion is a proven leader who has delivered outstanding results during her 30 year career at TD Bank. She is passionate about providing a superior customer experience and focuses on developing great teams,” said Curtis Simard, Bar Harbor Bank & Trust, President and Chief Executive Officer. “In her previous role Marion was responsible for the retail delivery strategy for over 110 branches. She has the unique ability to drive results in mature markets as well as drive growth in new markets through successful de novo branch roll-outs. Marion will help us continue to develop and implement our best in-class community banking model across our entire footprint.”
Ms. Colombo was recognized as an Outstanding Woman Leader in Massachusetts earning the Abigail Adams award from the Massachusetts Women’s Political Caucus in 2014. In the community she has volunteered with the United Way, Boston Partners in Education, and Dress for Success Boston, from whom she received the Standing Strong Award in 2015 for extraordinary support of women in the workplace.
Bar Harbor Bankshares (NYSE MKT: BHB) is the parent of Bar Harbor Bank & Trust with more than $3 billion in assets. Founded in 1887, Bar Harbor Bank & Trust is a true community bank serving the financial needs of its customers for 130 years. Bar Harbor Bank & Trust provides a full range of financial services through its 49 branch locations in all three Northern New England states of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. Bar Harbor Bank & Trust was named one of the 2017 Top 200 Publicly Traded Community Banks in the nation by American Banker magazine. For more information call 1-888-853-7100 or go to www.bhbt.com . Member FDIC.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005855/en/
Bar Harbor Bank & Trust
Joseph Schmitt, 207-667-0660 x10980
Chief Marketing Officer
jschmitt@barharbor.bank
Source: Bar Harbor Bankshares