NEW YORK, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sagent Advisors, a leading investment banking advisory firm, announced today that James Flicker has joined the Firm as a Managing Director and Head of Paper & Forest Products practice.
Mr. Flicker has over 25 years of investment banking experience providing strategic advice and raising capital exclusively in the Paper and Forest Products industry. These assignments have included some of the most important transactions in the Forest Products industry.
Prior to joining Sagent, Mr. Flicker ran the Forest Products investment banking practice at Greenhill & Co. from 2008 – 2017 and at Citigroup from 2006 – 2008. Prior to Citigroup, he was at UBS in a similar capacity for over seven years. From 1988 – 1999, he worked as an equity research analyst at Lehman Brothers where he was an Institutional Investor-ranked analyst covering the Paper & Forest Products sector.
Joseph Donohue, Sagent's Co-Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are very pleased to have a veteran dealmaker of Jamie's caliber and reputation to lead Sagent's efforts in the Paper & Forest Products sector."
James holds a BA from the University of Vermont, an MBA from Fordham University, and has been a Chartered Financial Analyst and member of the New York Society of Security Analysts since 1995. He sits on the Board of Directors for the University of Vermont Grossman School of Business.
About Sagent Advisors
Sagent Advisors is a leading investment bank focused on providing strategic and financial advice on mergers, acquisitions, sales, divestitures and private capital solutions. Sagent's clients include leading domestic and multi-national corporations, middle market and emerging growth companies, private equity sponsors and family-owned and entrepreneur-led businesses. Sagent has completed nearly 200 transactions exceeding $60 billion in aggregate value across a broad range of industries and transactions types.
Sagent provides broad industry and execution expertise through its three offices in the US with strategic partnerships in Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Founded in 2004, Sagent's dedicated team of seasoned professionals is committed to the long-term success of their clients by providing original thinking, uncommon access and Pure Advice™, free of structural conflicts. To learn more visit: www.sagentadvisors.com .
CONTACT: Joe Flores, jflores@sagentadvisors.com , 212-904-9457
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/james-flicker-joins-sagent-advisors-as-a-managing-director-and-head-of-paper--forest-products-300588543.html
SOURCE Sagent Advisors