ATLANTA, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Jackson Healthcare, a national provider of staffing, search and technology services, announced the promotion of Karyn Mullins to president of Healthcare Staffing Technologies. Healthcare Staffing Technologies, a Jackson Healthcare company, hosts niche job boards that speed job seeker and employer matching, powered by the premier job search engine for healthcare sales, marketing, and management careers.
Mullins has previously served as vice president and general manager of Healthcare Staffing Technologies. Prior to joining Healthcare Staffing Technologies, Karyn served as vice president of marketing at Lightyear Direct, a top provider of digital X-ray technology in the dental market. Karyn has also held marketing management positions at CipherTrust and Internet Security Systems, where she served as a significant contributor to each company's growth.
"Karyn is a proven leader who has excelled in each and every position she has held within our organization," said R. Shane Jackson, president of Jackson Healthcare. "I am looking forward to seeing how her leadership and impressive experience in healthcare, technology and e-commerce will continue to transform Healthcare Staffing Technologies."
Mullins said, "I am honored to have an expanded role within an organization that is so committed to excellence, and I am looking forward to keeping Healthcare Staffing Technologies at the forefront of the talent acquisition and staffing industries by focusing on our customers' growth and long-term success."
Karyn holds a Bachelor of Administration from Stetson University. She is a resident of Flowery Branch.
About Jackson Healthcare
Jackson Healthcare is a family of highly-specialized healthcare staffing and technology companies. It is the third-largest U.S. healthcare staffing firm by revenue, ranks 20 th among U.S. staffing firms, and is 17 th largest among Atlanta's private companies. Its mission is improving the delivery of patient care and the lives of everyone it touches through its business operations and community outreach. Jackson Healthcare is routinely acknowledged for prioritizing associates' positive experience, including earning Atlanta Business Chronicle's "Best Place to Work" from 2014 to 2016 and certification as a Fortune 2017 Great Place to Work. Visit JacksonHealthcare.com to learn more.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jackson-healthcare-names-karyn-mullins-president-of-healthcare-staffing-technologies-300580276.html
SOURCE Jackson Healthcare