Top News 
Tsunami Warning 
A magnitude-7.9 quake has struck in the Gulf of Alaska, prompting tsunami warnings in Alaska and British Columbia. Washington, Oregon, California and Hawaii have also been put on tsunami watch. Elsewhere on the Ring of Fire, a magnitude-6.1 quake struck Indonesia and a volcano erupted in Japan. Fortune 
Blow to Fox’s Sky Takeover 
The British Competition and Markets Authority has provisionally nixed 21st Century Fox’s $26 billion takeover of media company Sky, saying it may not be in the public interest as it would put too much power in Rupert Murdoch’s hands. Fortune 
Stocks Rally on Shutdown Shutdown 
President Donald Trump has signed a bipartisan bill that gives three weeks of funding to the federal government in exchange for a promise that the Republican-controlled Senate will reopen negotiations on the future of “Dreamers” and border security. With the U.S.’s three-day shutdown now over, European shares opened to new highs. Reuters 
Ex-KPMG Partners Charged 
Three former KPMG executives have been arrested and charged with conspiracy for allegedly gaming audit inspections. The Securities and Exchange Commission says they used leaked information from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to pass inspections. CNBC Around the Water Cooler 
Trump’s Solar Tariffs Target China 
President Donald Trump has approved duties of up to 30% on foreign-made solar equipment, which largely comes from China. Although higher costs are predicted for installers in the U.S., their shares jumped as the tariffs were lower than the 35% floated last year. The U.S. also placed 20% tariffs on imported washing machines. Fortune 
Uber in Africa 
Will Uber take heed of investor SoftBank’s recent suggestion that it should focus only on its core markets in the U.S., Europe, Latin America, and Australia? A spokesperson said the company is “very much committed to our successful businesses across Africa,” so the jury’s out for now. iAfrikan 
Budweiser Is Slipping 
Budweiser is no longer one of the U.S.’s top three beers, according to new data, having been knocked into fourth place by Miller Lite. The other two top beers are Bud Light and Coors Light. However, even the top three have seen sales slip as a host of craft beers become more popular. Fortune 
Hugh Masekela Dies 
The internationally renowned South African jazz trumpeter Hugh Masekela, whose music was an integral part of the soundtrack to the struggle against Apartheid, has passed away at the age of 78 following a battle against prostate cancer. BBC 
This edition of CEO Daily was edited by David Meyer . Find previous editions here , and sign up for other Fortune newsletters here . SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 