NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Eyenovia Inc., a clinical-stage ophthalmic pharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development, and commercialization of first-in-class micro-therapeutics for the eye, today announced the appointment of John Gandolfo as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) effective December 18, 2017.
Mr. Gandolfo has more than 30 years of experience in executive and senior management positions with high growth public and private companies, primarily in the medical devices and life sciences sectors. He has assisted in raising approximately $500 million in capital through public market transactions and private investors, venture capitalists and debt transactions. Prior to joining Eyenovia, Mr. Gandolfo spent more than seven years at Xtant Medical Holdings, Inc., where he served as CFO. He has also served as the CFO at Progenitor Cell Therapy LLC, Power Medical Interventions, Inc., and Bioject, Inc. Mr. Gandolfo is a graduate of Rutgers University and started his professional career at Price Waterhouse.
“We are pleased to welcome John to our growing team. His proven track record as a financial executive will be invaluable to the company as we continue to advance our extensive clinical development pipeline, and his deep relationships in the investment community and with Wall Street analysts will provide us with a strong foundation as we continue to grow our company and operations. We look forward to his financial oversight as we bring multiple micro-therapeutic clinical programs into Phase III development in 2018,” commented Dr. Sean Ianchulev, Eyenovia’s Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Gandolfo added, “I am very pleased to join Eyenovia’s experienced leadership team at this exciting stage of development, and believe that my broad financial and operational experience will be a valuable asset. Eyenovia’s unique micro-dosing technology holds immense potential in providing a safer, more effective and more precise delivery option for ophthalmologists and patients. I look forward to working with the team to successfully execute on the company’s multiple late stage programs as we work to bring new and innovative treatments to the market.”
About Eyenovia
Eyenovia is a specialty biopharmaceutical company building a portfolio of next generation topical eye treatments based on its proprietary delivery and formulation platform for micro-therapeutics. Eyenovia’s pipeline is currently focused on the late-stage development of micro-therapeutics for glaucoma and other eye diseases. For more information, visit www.eyenoviabio.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005512/en/
Eyenovia, Inc.
Jennifer Gaines
jgaines@eyenoviabio.com
or
The Ruth Group
Kirsten Thomas
kthomas@theruthgroup.com
Source: Eyenovia Inc.