BOCA RATON, Fla., Jan. 27, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. is pleased to announce the acquisition of Xponent Employer Solutions, headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona. Offering years of experience in integrated outsourcing solutions, Xponent provides a single-source provider to their clients to reduce the costs and complexities associated with Payroll, Employee Benefits, Insurance Services, and Human Resource Management. With this area of expertise at their disposal, their proven success will strengthen the portfolio of Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty's family of companies.
Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. continues to target high-quality independent agencies for geographic expansion and continued growth throughout the United States. With the addition of Xponent, Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc. will continue to reach new and current clients by helping them with all their human resource needs. SHP&C offers:
Homeowner's Policy Automobile Insurance Renter's Policy Private Client Umbrella Coverage Commercial and Employee Coverage Personal Liability Coverage Employee Benefits Human Resources
Marshal Seeman, President of Seeman Holtz Property and Casualty, stated, " It feels great to get Mark and his team incorporated into our family of companies. They have the business platform and model to help us meet the payroll and employee benefits needs of the thousands of our existing commercial clients." Brett Williams, Vice President, added, "Xponent has a national footprint and an incredible technology platform. They are a perfect fit to complement our existing digital operations."
About Our Company: The Seeman Holtz family of companies provides comprehensive financial and insurance advice to clients across the country.
Contact: Eric Holtz
Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty
844.255.6639
eric@seemanholtzpc.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/seeman-holtz-property--casualtys-first-acquisition-of-2018-continues-their-expansion-with-first-arizona-company-300589221.html
SOURCE Seeman Holtz Property & Casualty, Inc.