IRVING, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Miraca Life Sciences announced today that it has changed its name to Inform Diagnostics effective immediately. The company was acquired in November by Avista Capital Partners from previous owner Miraca Holdings. The name Inform Diagnostics and new logo were chosen to highlight the company’s focus on providing pathology and diagnostic capabilities that together help inform clinicians and their patients about critical, health-related issues.
“Although our name has changed to Inform Diagnostics, our services and dedication to our clinician clients remain constant,” said Scott Walton , who was named CEO of Inform Diagnostics last month. “The company’s tagline—Every Patient Deserves the Right Answer—highlights our commitment to providing the highest quality pathology and diagnostic services in the marketplace today, which in turn allows our clinician clients to provide their patients the best care possible.”
Clients should continue to use requisitions, supplies, and other materials with the Miraca name until new branded materials are provided. Pathology reports for patients will display the Miraca brand until the company begins billing payors as Inform Diagnostics, which is expected to commence in March.
About Inform Diagnostics
Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Inform Diagnostics is the largest independent anatomic pathology provider in the United States. The company’s laboratories are located in Dallas (Irving, Texas), Boston (Needham, Mass.), Phoenix, and Union, N.J. Additionally, a large non-laboratory office is located in Daphne, Alabama, as well as smaller offices and laboratories in other cities. Previously known as Miraca Life Sciences since 2012, Inform Diagnostics provides proven high-quality anatomic and clinical pathology services, focusing on the fields of gastroenterology, dermatology, hematology, urology, and breast health. The company’s team of more than 80 distinguished subspecialist pathologists utilizes state-of-the-art laboratories to serve more than 5,500 patients every day. For more information, visit www.InformDx.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006611/en/
Inform Diagnostics
Joy Jennings, 214-596-7055
joy.jennings@InformDx.com
Source: Inform Diagnostics