DENVER, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- SRC Energy Inc. (NYSE AMEX:SRCI) (“SRC” or the “Company”), an oil and gas exploration and production company focused in the Denver-Julesburg Basin, today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Jennifer S. Zucker as an independent director, effective immediately.
Ms. Zucker is an attorney with Greenberg Traurig in Washington D.C. where she joined as a shareholder in the Government Contracts & Projects Practice in January 2018. Her practice focuses on the defense sector and intelligence community. Previously, she was a partner at the Washington, DC law firms of Wiley Rein and Squire Patton Boggs. Ms. Zucker currently serves as a Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve, where she commands the 13 th Legal Operations Detachment - Expert, and was recently selected to the 2018 DirectWomen Board Institute class.
Management Comment
“On behalf of the Board, we would like to welcome Jennifer to SRC Energy,” said Lynn A. Peterson, Chairman and CEO of SRC Energy. “We are pleased to have an individual with Jennifer’s reputation and experience join SRC. She will enhance the diverse expertise and knowledge that our board offers to the Company and its stockholders.”
About SRC Energy Inc.
SRC Energy Inc. is a domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production company. SRC's core area of operations is in the Wattenberg Field of the Denver-Julesburg Basin. The Company's corporate offices are located in Denver, Colorado. More company news and information about SRC is available at www.srcenergy.com .
Important Cautions Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
Company Contact: John Richardson (Investor Relations Manager) SRC Energy Inc. Tel 720-616-4308 E-mail: jrichardson@srcenergy.com
Source:SRC Energy Inc.