FINDLAY, Ohio, Marathon Petroleum Corp. (NYSE: MPC) will host a conference call Thursday, Feb. 1, 2018, at 9 a.m. EST to discuss 2017 fourth-quarter and full-year financial results, which will be released earlier that day, and to provide an update on company operations.
Participants will be Gary R. Heminger, chairman and chief executive officer; Don Templin, president; Tim Griffith, senior vice president and chief financial officer; Michael J. Hennigan, president of the general partner of MPLX LP (NYSE: MPLX), the master limited partnership sponsored by MPC; and other senior executives. The call will be hosted by Lisa Wilson, director of Investor Relations.
Interested parties may listen to the conference call by dialing (888) 989-4720 (confirmation number 4852094) or by visiting MPC's website at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com and clicking on the "2017 Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results" link. Replays of the conference call will be available on the company's website through Thursday, Feb. 15. Financial information, including the earnings release and other investor-related material, also will be available online.
About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MPC is the nation's second-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.9 million barrels per calendar day in its six-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,600 independently owned retail outlets across 20 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation's second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,730 convenience stores in 21 states. Through subsidiaries, MPC owns the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. Primarily through MPLX, MPC owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 10,800 miles of crude oil and light product pipelines. Also through MPLX, MPC has ownership interests in gathering and processing facilities with approximately 5.9 billion cubic feet per day of gathering capacity, 8 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas processing capacity and 610,000 barrels per day of fractionation capacity. MPC's fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, NGLs, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company's distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Midwest, Northeast, East Coast, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions.
 with multimedia: releases/marathon-petroleum-corp-to-announce-2017-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-financial-results-feb-1-300579196.html
SOURCE Marathon Petroleum Corporation