A powerful winter storm grounded more than 3,600 flights and halted operations at New York City airports Thursday.
New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport and LaGuardia Airport suspended flights because of whiteout conditions and high winds. 
Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey, a United Airlines hub, was most affected by cancellations with 931 canceled flights, 70 percent of its schedule, according to FlightAware, a plane-tracking website. At Boston Logan International Airport, a hub of JetBlue and an important airport for business travel, 720 flights were canceled. 
Travel disruptions will continue into Friday, capping off a shortened back-to-work week for business travelers. Airlines canceled more than 300 flights on Friday because of the storm, according to FlightAware. 
American Airlines scrubbed its entire Thursday schedule in and out of LaGuardia Airport until at least 3 p.m. and canceled its shuttle service to Washington, D.C., and Boston.
The storm is expected to whip the region with high winds, snow and then record low temperatures.
Airlines waived change fees for travelers booked to affected airports this week.
Delta Air Lines said passengers booked to fly Thursday or Friday from airports in the Northeast can depart as late as Jan. 8 without paying a change fee. JetBlue said it was waiving change fees and fare differences for passengers affected by the storm.
American issued a similar waiver for more than a dozen airports in the Northeast. The largest U.S. airline is also waiving change fees for travel from 14 airports in the South, including Savannah and Raleigh, due to the storm. A record-setting blast of cold is expected to follow the system.
Southwest Airlines warned travelers that flights to and from 19 East Coast airports may be canceled, delayed or diverted due to the storm and encouraged travelers to change their travel dates.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said Wednesday it had 524 pieces of snow equipment at the area's airports that can melt up to 500 tons of snow an hour but that flights may still be canceled due to high winds and poor visibility.
Airlines frequently offer travelers a chance to change their travel dates far in advance of a storm in an effort to avoid chaos at the airport, where travelers may be stranded, and to prevent a crush of frustrated travelers from overloading their employees.
International flights are a priority Long-haul international flights are often among the last flights airlines cancel, because they generate much more revenue than short, domestic flights and are serviced by much larger aircraft.
The cancellation of an international flight can cause logistical problems to snowball into disruptions lasting more than a day because both aircraft and crews are out of position. U.S. airlines have much greater access to aircraft and crews within the country.
Even though JFK had suspended operations midmorning, only 253 flights, about 40 percent of its scheduled departures, were canceled out of the major international hub. Many international flights, particularly lucrative trans-Atlantic routes, depart in the evening, so some airlines appear to be taking a wait-and-see approach. 
While flights might not be canceled due to weather, transit disruptions could force airlines to call off flights because flight attendants and pilots may not be able to reach their assigned planes. 
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the largest airports in the New York area, said late Thursday morning that the AirTrain, which connects the subway with the airport's terminals, has been suspended.
It was unclear how much the storm will cost airlines. Last year, a string of strong hurricanes that hit airlines' hubs cost airlines hundreds of millions of dollars in lost revenue, but clearing runways from a snowstorm is a much faster process than recovering from the floods, power outages, structural damage to airports and other infrastructure damage that 2017's storms caused.