PASADENA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Tetra Tech, Inc. (NASDAQ: TTEK) announced today that it has acquired Bridgenet International Inc. (BridgeNet). BridgeNet is an aviation technology solutions firm based in Newport Beach, California, that is focused on aerospace data analytics, environmental and acoustic consulting, and 3-dimensional airspace visualization for federal and commercial aviation customers.
BridgeNet develops, sells, and supports its proprietary software, Volans, a web-based 3-dimensional application designed to create, evaluate and display flight operations. This tool enables engineers and aviation experts to simulate and display potential acoustic and environmental impacts from new performance-based navigation procedures and flight operations, as well as runway and airfield configurations. Volans is being used throughout the world, including in the United States, Canada, Australia, France and England.
“New performance-based navigation systems require more advanced assessment and management tools,” said Dan Batrack, Tetra Tech’s Chairman and CEO. “By combining the expertise of Tetra Tech and BridgeNet, we have expanded our ability to provide technologically differentiated solutions for life-cycle aviation services from airspace and ground support to environmental and aviation demand modeling and forecasting worldwide.”
Paul Dunholter, BridgeNet’s President, stated, “This transaction represents an exciting new chapter in our business. Tetra Tech shares our commitment to advancing the science of performance-based navigation. This is an extraordinary opportunity for us to join a technology-focused firm with the global resources to broaden our ability to support aviation and airports around the world.”
About BridgeNet ( www.airportnetwork.com )
BridgeNet develops and deploys innovative management and technology solutions that address complex aircraft noise and airspace issues for airports and air traffic organizations.
About Tetra Tech
Tetra Tech is a leading, global provider of consulting and engineering services. We are differentiated by Leading with Science ® to provide innovative technical solutions to our clients. We support global commercial and government clients focused on water, environment, infrastructure, resource management, energy, and international development. With more than 16,000 associates worldwide, Tetra Tech provides clear solutions to complex problems. For more information about Tetra Tech, please visit tetratech.com , follow us on Twitter ( @TetraTech ), or like us on Facebook .
Any statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made in this release represent management’s best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, Tetra Tech’s actual outcome and results are not guaranteed and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions ("Future Factors"), and may differ materially from what is expressed. For a description of Future Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, see the discussion under the section "Risk Factors" included in the Company’s Form 10-K and 10-Q filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125006362/en/
Tetra Tech, Inc.
Jim Wu, Investor Relations
Charlie MacPherson, Media & Public Relations
626-470-2844
Source: Tetra Tech, Inc.