Pictures | Thu Jan 25, 2018 | 7:31am EST Editors Choice Pictures 
A view of Mount Mayon volcano as it erupted anew, from Our Lady of the Gate Parish church in Daraga, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 A view of Mount Mayon volcano as it erupted anew, from Our Lady of the Gate Parish church in Daraga, Albay province, south of Manila, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Close 1 / 24 
Victims and others look on as Rachael Denhollander speaks at the sentencing hearing for Larry Nassar, a former team USA Gymnastics doctor who pleaded guilty in November 2017 to sexual assault charges, in Lansing, Michigan. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Victims and others look on as Rachael Denhollander speaks at the sentencing hearing for Larry Nassar, a former team USA Gymnastics doctor who pleaded guilty in November 2017 to sexual assault charges, in Lansing, Michigan. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Close 2 / 24 
A Palestinian protester holds a sling as he poses for a photograph at the scene of clashes with Israeli troops near the border with Israel, east of Gaza City. REUTERS/Mohammed Salem Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 A Palestinian protester holds a sling as he poses for a photograph at the scene of clashes with Israeli troops near the border with Israel, east of Gaza City. REUTERS/Mohammed Salem Close 3 / 24 
Women prisoners attend a Thai massage class at Chiang Mai Women's Correctional Institute, in Chiang Mai, Thailand. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha Reuters / Thursday, January 25, 2018 Women prisoners attend a Thai massage class at Chiang Mai Women's Correctional Institute, in Chiang Mai, Thailand. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha Close 4 / 24 
Girls stand behind a fence as they watch the funeral of Sameer Ahmad Wani, a suspected militant who according to local media was killed in a gunbattle with Indian security forces on Wednesday evening, in Chaigund village in south Kashmir's Shopian... more Reuters / Thursday, January 25, 2018 Girls stand behind a fence as they watch the funeral of Sameer Ahmad Wani, a suspected militant who according to local media was killed in a gunbattle with Indian security forces on Wednesday evening, in Chaigund village in south Kashmir's Shopian district. REUTERS/Danish Ismail Close 
Afghan police officers take position during a blast and gun fire in Jalalabad, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Parwiz Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Afghan police officers take position during a blast and gun fire in Jalalabad, Afghanistan. REUTERS/Parwiz Close 6 / 24 
Model Coco Rocha and her daughter present creations by French designer Jean Paul Gaultier   collection in Paris. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Model Coco Rocha and her daughter present creations by French designer Jean Paul Gaultier   collection in Paris. REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes Close 7 / 24 
Men sleep in a sport center where a community of homeless Venezuelan migrants stays, in Cucuta, Colombia. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Men sleep in a sport center where a community of homeless Venezuelan migrants stays, in Cucuta, Colombia. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins Close 8 / 24 
People clear rubble inside a mosque after it was hit by a rocket fired from Syria, in the border town of Kilis, Turkey. Can Erok/Dogan News Agency via REUTERS Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 People clear rubble inside a mosque after it was hit by a rocket fired from Syria, in the border town of Kilis, Turkey. Can Erok/Dogan News Agency via REUTERS Close 9 / 24 
Larry Nassar, a former team USA Gymnastics doctor who pleaded guilty in November 2017 to sexual assault charges, is lead from the courtroom past victims following his sentencing hearing in Lansing, Michigan. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Larry Nassar, a former team USA Gymnastics doctor who pleaded guilty in November 2017 to sexual assault charges, is lead from the courtroom past victims following his sentencing hearing in Lansing, Michigan. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Close 10 / 24 
A Maltese flag and banner calling for justice are seen at the scene of the assassination of anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, one hundred days after her murder in a car bomb explosion, in Bidnija, Malta. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 A Maltese flag and banner calling for justice are seen at the scene of the assassination of anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, one hundred days after her murder in a car bomb explosion, in Bidnija, Malta. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi Close 11 / 24 
  12 / 24 
A man walks past the entrance of a camp set up by Myanmar's Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement Minister to prepare for the repatriation of displaced Rohingyas, who fled to Bangladesh, outside Maungdaw in the state of Rakhine, Myanmar.... more Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 A man walks past the entrance of a camp set up by Myanmar's Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement Minister to prepare for the repatriation of displaced Rohingyas, who fled to Bangladesh, outside Maungdaw in the state of Rakhine, Myanmar. REUTERS/Stringer Close 13 / 24 
  14 / 24 
Monitors about to be recycled are seen in a warehouse at the government-sponsored recycling park in the township of Guiyu, Guangdong Province, China. REUTERS/Aly Song   Monitors about to be recycled are seen in a warehouse at the government-sponsored recycling park in the township of Guiyu, Guangdong Province, China. REUTERS/Aly Song Close 15 / 24 
A street-lamp is seen on the flooded banks of the Seine River in Paris, France, after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country. REUTERS/Christian Hartmann Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 A street-lamp is seen on the flooded banks of the Seine River in Paris, France, after days of almost non-stop rain caused flooding in the country. REUTERS/Christian Hartmann Close 16 / 24 
Protesters with banners light flares during a demonstration against U.S. President Donald Trump, ahead of Trump's visit to   (WEF), in Zurich, Switzerland. REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann   Protesters with banners light flares during a demonstration against U.S. President Donald Trump, ahead of Trump's visit to   (WEF), in Zurich, Switzerland. REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann Close 17 / 24 
Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua, two cloned long tailed macaque monkeys are seen at the Non-Primate facility at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Shanghai, China. Qiang Sun and Mu-ming Poo, Chinese Academy of Sciences/ via REUTERS Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua, two cloned long tailed macaque monkeys are seen at the Non-Primate facility at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Shanghai, China. Qiang Sun and Mu-ming Poo, Chinese Academy of Sciences/ via REUTERS Close 18 / 24 
  19 / 24 
Singer Elton John performs before announcing his final "Farewell Yellow Brick Road" tour in Manhattan. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Singer Elton John performs before announcing his final "Farewell Yellow Brick Road" tour in Manhattan. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Close 20 / 24 
Children cheer up Japan's national team members (upper seats) at a ceremony to send off Japan's national teams for the upcoming 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games, in Tokyo. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 Children cheer up Japan's national team members (upper seats) at a ceremony to send off Japan's national teams for the upcoming 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games, in Tokyo. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Close 21 / 24 
Marin Cilic of Croatia serves against Kyle Edmund of Britain at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Toru Hanai Reuters / Thursday, January 25, 2018 Marin Cilic of Croatia serves against Kyle Edmund of Britain at the Australian Open. REUTERS/Toru Hanai Close 22 / 24 
The Duo 2-Zen-0 perform during the Gala evening of the 42th Monte-Carlo International Circus Festival in Monaco. REUTERS/Claude Paris/Pool Reuters / Wednesday, January 24, 2018 The Duo 2-Zen-0 perform during the Gala evening of the 42th Monte-Carlo International Circus Festival in Monaco. REUTERS/Claude Paris/Pool Close 23 / 24 
A farmer works on a rice farm while Mount Mayon volcano spews ash during a new eruption in Daraga, Albay province, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Reuters / Thursday, January 25, 2018 A farmer works on a rice farm while Mount Mayon volcano spews ash during a new eruption in Daraga, Albay province, Philippines. REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Close