DENVER, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- After more than a decade of planning and fundraising, Wings Over the Rockies (Wings), an aerospace focused Colorado non-profit, is proud to announce its unique to the nation entertainment and education campus, Exploration of Flight.
Designed to incorporate future-focused aviation and space centers, Exploration of Flight is a 15-acre campus located on the south side of Centennial Airport in Englewood, Colorado. The sister facility to Wings Over the Rockies Air & Space Museum in Denver's Lowry neighborhood, Exploration of Flight will be housed at one of the busiest general aviation airports in the nation, offering visitors incredible experiences that focus on aerospace.
Slated for completion in summer 2018, phase one of Wings' Exploration of Flight campus, the Boeing Blue Sky Aviation Gallery, will offer a visitor experience unlike any facility before it. Entering a world of active flight, the gallery will be filled with interactive exhibits and activities designed to excite and thrill while educating visitors about aviation. Visitors will have the opportunity to engage with world-class exhibits, experience a thrilling simulator, tour Centennial Airport, witness live takeoffs, landings and even indulge in flight itself.
"This facility will be unique to the nation," explained Wings Over the Rockies President & CEO, John Barry. "Our Air & Space Museum in Lowry will concentrate on the past while the Exploration of Flight Campus at Centennial Airport will focus on the present and future. One organization, two locations."
For more information about the Boeing Blue Sky Gallery opening or the Exploration of Flight Center, visit ExplorationOfFlight.org .
About Wings Over the Rockies:
Wings Over the Rockies is a Colorado-based non-profit organization dedicated to educating and inspiring all people about aviation and space endeavors of the past, present and future. By utilizing the Air & Space Museum in Denver's historic Lowry neighborhood to preserve the past and the Exploration of Flight Center at Centennial Airport to focus on the present and future, Wings strives to encourage the future aerospace leaders of tomorrow. For more information about Wings Over the Rockies please visit WingsMuseum.org , ExplorationOfFlight.org or like us on Facebook , follow us on Twitter & Instagram , connect with us on LinkedIn , join us on G+ and subscribe to our YouTube channel.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wings-over-the-rockies-announces-unique-to-the-nation-campus-at-centennial-airport-300580362.html
SOURCE Wings Over the Rockies Air & Space Museum