LAVAL, Quebec--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Altasciences Clinical Research, a full-service provider focused on early stage clinical research with over twenty-five years of experience, proudly announces the addition of Dr. Gaetano Morelli to the Altasciences family.
Dr. Morelli has over two decades of experience in clinical research, Phases I to III, as a Principal Investigator and Medical Director. He is the Director of Gastroenterology/Endoscopy at St. Mary’s Hospital, McGill University, in Montreal, Canada, and maintains both private and academic GI practices in the area.
“Dr. Morelli’s work has been instrumental in our ongoing GI-related Phase I studies, including those intended to investigate the efficacy of drugs in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), an advanced form of fatty liver disease that causes scarring and inflammation. In addition to acting as sub-investigator on studies, he supports the development of protocols, participates in Safety Review Committee meetings, and performs endoscopies and other therapeutic techniques that are often primary endpoints of GI studies,” said Ingrid Holmes, Vice President, Clinical Operations, at Altasciences.
Dr. Morelli’s involvement in GI-related Phase I studies, including the development of NASH services, will be key as Altasciences continues to expand its offering and assist sponsors in navigating the complexities of conducting a variety of early phase trials. With the ultimate goal to provide a robust and comprehensive solution, Altasciences has developed collaborations with multiple hospitals, therefore facilitating access and identification of NASH patients, which has resulted in enhanced subject recruitment and engagement. Furthermore, its operational team has the expertise to conduct these early phase trials that require specific imaging and biomarker services, in addition to an understanding of metabolic and gastrointestinal disease therapeutic areas.
“It is a pleasure for me to partner with Altasciences, an industry leader, to continue to expand their therapeutic offerings in GI disease-specific studies. In particular, developing approaches for better diagnosis and management of chronic liver disease, which is currently an increasing worldwide concern,” mentioned Dr. Morelli.
About Altasciences
Altasciences Clinical Research encompasses Algorithme Pharma in Montreal, QC, Vince & Associates Clinical Research in Overland Park, KS, as well as Algorithme Pharma USA in Fargo, ND, thereby making it one of the largest early phase clinical CROs in North America. With over 25 years of industry experience, Altasciences provides early phase clinical development services to an international customer base of biopharmaceutical and generic companies. Altasciences’ full-service solutions offering in this critical stage of drug development includes medical writing, biostatistics, data management and bioanalysis.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005812/en/
Altasciences
Amy Sikora, 514-210-6993
asikora@altasciences.com
Source: Altasciences Clinical Research