DALLAS, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Generational Equity , a leading mergers and acquisitions advisor for privately held businesses, is pleased to announce the acquisition of its client, Advanced Service Solutions Inc., by BHMS Investments. The transaction closed January 2, 2018.
Advanced Service Solutions , based in Hammonton, New Jersey, provides facilities maintenance management, offering interior and exterior services to commercial clients nationwide. The services consist of landscaping, snow removal, parking lot maintenance, janitorial services, HVAC, plumbing, commercial fit-outs and restaurant equipment maintenance. Advanced serves commercial businesses in 47 U.S. states with a large presence in Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey. The senior management team continues to be significant shareholders in the company.
"We are proud to partner with BHMS to help us continue to build a large, first-class facilities maintenance company," said Advanced Founder and CEO Jeff Tunis. "Advanced has demonstrated dynamic growth over the last decade, and we believe our partnership with BHMS will help the company reach the next level as well as provide us with the capital needed to expand."
BHMS Investments , based in New York City, is a private investment firm focused on the North American lower middle market. Founded in 2010, it considers investing in a wide variety of control opportunities ranging from acquiring companies in financial distress to conventional leveraged buyouts. The BHMS mandate and partner experience includes investing across all sectors of the economy.
"Advanced is a premier player in a large and fragmented industry, and the company's scale, dynamic organic growth, first-class employee base and Jeff's expertise and leadership fit our mandate perfectly," said Kevin L. Angelis, BHMS Managing Partner. "We are excited about investing alongside Jeff and team and we look forward to a rewarding partnership."
Generational Equity Managing Director Terry Mackin successfully closed the deal. Senior Managing Director Thomas Hamm established the initial relationship with Advanced.
"Throughout the marketing process, our client remained focused on what he felt he needed in an acquiring partner," said Mackin. "From first introduction to closing, the BHMS team set the professional tone for what we all believe will be a very successful partnership."
About Generational Equity
Generational Equity , DealForce , and Generational Capital Markets , member FINRA/SIPC, are part of the Generational Group , which is headquartered in Dallas and is one of the leading M&A advisory firms in North America. With over 250 professionals located throughout North America, the companies help business owners release the wealth of their business by providing merger, acquisition and strategic growth advisory services. Their four-step approach features exit planning education, business valuation, value enhancement strategies, and M&A transactional services.
The M&A Advisor named the company the 2016 and 2017 Investment Banking Firm of the Year. For more, visit https://www.genequityco.com/ or the Generational Equity press room .
For more information:
Carl Doerksen
972-232-1125
cdoerksen@generational.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/generational-equity-advises-advanced-service-solutions-in-sale-to-bhms-investments-300584335.html
SOURCE Generational Equity