LA JOLLA, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AV1 Group, Inc. (OTC Pink:AVOP), a publicly traded investment and holding company, today announced the engagement of Mr. Jon Fortune. With over 15 years in the energy industry spanning project planning, policy, and strategic development of renewable energy and storage systems, Mr. Fortune’s insights have successfully shaped markets and businesses globally.
Bryen Beglinger, AV1 Group CEO, commented: "We welcome Jon to our team. He has a wealth of experience and with his expertise in renewable energy, he will be a significant asset. He has a number of contacts in the industry that he is already working with on co-development opportunities, solutions and building customer relationships for our LED division and Smart City projects. Jon will also be working with our wholly-owned subsidiary, X-Fire, Inc., to incorporate block chain technology to the current product offering."
About AV1 Group, Inc.
AV1 Group, Inc. is a publicly traded investment and holding company established to identify, secure, and monetize emerging growth companies, technologies and ecommerce businesses positioned for exponential growth. The Company seeks to discover inspired entrepreneurs with revolutionary concepts which can make a substantial footprint in markets that the Company believes to have considerable growth potential. AV1 Group’s comprehensive business model also includes a division which delivers internally created projects that are poised for revenue generation, and a platform enabling the Company to develop embryonic stage subsidiaries under one umbrella, bringing a spectrum of backgrounds to the table, and thus providing a significant resource of experience, knowledge and expertise to every venture. AV1 Group explores every opportunity to help each sector exceed their revenue goals while building close, active working relationships, preparing each respective division to be a robust competitor in their chosen markets.
Visit us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/AVOPGroup/
Visit us on Twitter: # https://twitter.com/av1_group
Visit us at Investors Hangout, the only authorized Investors blog page for AV1 Group, Inc.: https://m.investorshangout.com/AV1-Group-Inc-AVOP-58751/
For more information, visit: http://www.AV1Group.com
Safe Harbor Act
Forward-Looking Statements are included within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, products and services, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations, including words such as “anticipate,” “if,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements and involve risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, or achievements. We are under no obligation to (and expressly disclaim any such obligation to) update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Communications Contact:
NetworkNewsWire (NNW)
New York, New York
www.NetworkNewsWire.com
212.418.1217 Office
Editor@NetworkNewsWire.com
Source:AV1 Group, Inc.