LA JOLLA, Calif., Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- VestaCare, Inc., a healthcare payment solutions company, is excited to announce and welcome the addition of two senior healthcare executives. Doug Bilbrey joins as vice president of sales and Ray Chase comes aboard as vice president of national accounts.
With 29 years of experience in the healthcare industry, Doug Bilbrey joins the company to lead the sales team in expanding VestaCare's portfolio of clients. He brings a wealth of industry experience and a proven track record in facilitating long-term business relationships with clients. Doug comments, "I am excited to come aboard VestaCare and look forward to applying my industry knowledge and expertise to help clients identify and minimize revenue losses as a result of patient leakage and rising deductibles. I am fortunate to be joining such a respected company that prides itself on delivering innovative solutions to providers, patients and payers." Previously, Bilbrey has held executive sales and management level positions with Patient Matters, MedAssist, Boston Software, and The SSI Group, Inc.
Ray Chase comes on board as vice president of national accounts and brings with him over 25 years of experience in revenue cycle management. His intimate knowledge of the financial challenges hospitals face will provide valuable insights as the company continues to develop best-in-class solutions. Ray states, "I made the transition to VestaCare after learning of their VestaPay Enterprise System that minimizes hospital patient leakage and increases revenue. It's the most innovative program I have seen and I'm excited to be part of the team."
Prior to joining the company, Ray held the position of vice president of revenue cycle overseeing nine hospitals in the East Texas market for CHI/St. Joseph HealthCare. Prior to CHI, Ray served as a revenue cycle subject matter expert consultant to many hospital and healthcare systems.
"I'm delighted to welcome Doug and Ray to the team as their experience and insights will accelerate our momentum as we continue to define new standards in healthcare payment solutions for hospitals and patients," says Tom Brekka, CEO.
Company Description
VestaCare is a healthcare payment solution company whose VestaPay program greatly reduces hospital patient leakage and revenue losses by offering patients flexible and affordable payment options, thereby building a reputation of affordable care for the health system. This results in increased patient and payer revenue as well as improved patient satisfaction and loyalty. www.vestacare.com
Contact:
Tom Brekka, CEO
VestaCare, Inc.
Phone: 831.325.7305
Email: 188514@email4pr.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/vestacare-appoints-new-senior-healthcare-executives-300581673.html
SOURCE VestaCare