ABINGDON, Md., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Kiddie Academy ® , a nationally recognized provider of comprehensive educational child care programs, today announced additions to its leadership team, as well as new hires and one promotion to its corporate team. The new staff designations follow the company's most successful growth year ever as a top franchise and industry leader in educational child care and signal continued growth for the brand.
"We're proud to continue bolstering our team with the industry's most skilled and passionate employees," said Kiddie Academy President Greg Helwig. "We anticipate expanding with approximately 40 new academies in 2018, and thus, need to strengthen our infrastructure to fuel strategic growth. Above all, having the right people in place will help us to achieve our long-term vision for Kiddie Academy —enabling us to provide the highest level of support to our franchisees and all the enrolled families within our community."
Highlights include:
Leadership Team: ­­­
Susan Wise Appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In her expanded capacity, Wise takes on strategic stewardship for the company continuing to provide overall financial leadership. As CFO for Kiddie Academy since 2003, she directs the implementation of financial plans, policies and accounting practices. In addition to her CFO role, Wise had previously served as Chief Operations Officer from 2011 to 2017, and first joined the company in 1989. Kevin Murphy Promoted to Chief Operating Officer. After leading the Kiddie Academy Operations Department for over a decade as Vice President, Murphy now oversees the operations, education, and marketing departments. He has 28 years of experience in education and over 20 years in organizational leadership. Murphy holds a BA in Philosophy from Washington College and a MEd in Supervision and Administration from Loyola University. He joined the company in 2005. Patrick Dandino Named General Counsel. Dandino joins Kiddie Academy after holding senior legal positions with leading franchise organizations in the restaurant, retail and hospitality sectors. Dandino also previously served as a government relations director for the International Franchise Association in Washington, D.C., and has collectively over 35 years' experience in the franchising industry. Sharon Lytwynec Hired as Vice President of Operations, bringing deep expertise in early childhood education to Kiddie Academy's operations team. Lytwynec began her career as a preschool and kindergarten teacher, and rose through the ranks of organizational leadership at the nation's largest corporately owned early childhood education system, as Center Director, District Manager, Regional Director of Operations, Region Vice President and most recently, Vice President of Operations.
New Hires/Promotions:
Vicky D'Agostino Joins as Director of Communications, with responsibilities for driving all aspects of internal and external communications on a regional and national level, including PR, content marketing, social media marketing and crisis communications programs for the brand. Previously, D'Agostino served as Vice President/Director of Client Services for a creative design studio. She brings extensive experience in creating and managing integrated marketing communications programs for a range of advertising agencies, retail and healthcare service companies, the arts, women's entrepreneurial organizations, as well as her own marketing communications businesses. Andy Seguin Promoted to Director of Digital Marketing. Seguin, a three-year company veteran, will continue to develop the digital strategy for the Kiddie Academy brand. He is responsible for the implementation of online marketing strategies and acting as a champion for the use of best practices in online marketing throughout the franchise system.
Kiddie Academy is an Abingdon-based leader in education-based child care, currently operating 200 academies in 26 states and the District of Columbia.
For more information on Kiddie Academy, please visit kiddieacademy.com . To learn more about franchising opportunities with the organization, visit kiddieacademyfranchising.com .
About Kiddie Academy ®
Since 1981, Kiddie Academy has been a leader in education-based child care. The company serves families and their children ages 6 weeks to 12 years old, offering full time care, kindergarten, before- and after-school care and summer camp programs. Kiddie Academy's proprietary Life Essentials ® curriculum, supporting programs, methods, activities and techniques help prepare children for school and for life. Kiddie Academy is using the globally recognized AdvancED accreditation system, signifying its commitment to quality education and the highest standards in child care. For more information, visit kiddieacademy.com .
About Kiddie Academy ® Franchising
Kiddie Academy Domestic Franchising is based in Maryland and has 200 academies located in 26 states and the District of Columbia. With approximately 40 more Academies expected to open in 2018, Kiddie Academy's network will grow to more than 240 open and operating locations next year. For more information, visit kiddieacademyfranchise.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kiddie-academy-strengthens-leadership-with-c-level-appointments-new-hires-300589938.html
SOURCE Kiddie Academy