SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Today, Impact Radius , a natively-integrated suite of products for marketing intelligence and analytics, ad fraud detection and prevention, and performance partnership marketing, announces the appointment of Scott Brazina as the company's first Chief Marketing Officer. Brazina brings over 16 years of SaaS marketing and strategic business development leadership. He will oversee Impact Radius' global marketing strategy, brand-building, demand generation, communications, and public relations as the company continues to accelerate growth in 2018 and beyond. The company has also appointed Adam Furness as the new Managing Director of Asia Pacific, to continue Impact Radius' mission of global growth.
"Last year was a stellar year for Impact Radius. We more than doubled our volume year-over-year, significantly added to our team, expanded our presence in major markets including opening a new office in New York, and made major moves in bolstering our suite of products that are meeting the needs of today's modern marketer," said David Yovanno, CEO, of Impact Radius. "Scott is a talented, multifaceted executive whose deep experience marketing enterprise software, vision and leadership come at a critical inflection point as Impact Radius scales and sharpens its global go-to-market strategy. Adam is a recognized marketing leader and veteran in the APAC region in his own right, and his appointment demonstrates Impact Radius' growth, vision and commitment to meeting the needs of today's modern global brands. We're thrilled to welcome both Scott and Adam onto a team that strives each day to set benchmarks for delivering smart marketing technology and iterative innovation to customers."
Prior to joining Impact Radius, Brazina was VP of MarTech & Media for Dyn, an Internet Performance Management (IPM) company acquired by Oracle in 2016. While at Dyn, with development partner Cox Media Gamut, Scott co-invented patented technology lifting Cox's Programmatic Advertising revenue through real-time optimization of Internet performance between Cox and Cox's RTB online advertising partners. He also served as the CMO of leading marketing technology company DataXu, which topped Inc. Magazine's list of fastest growing advertising and marketing companies in 2013. Over the course of his career, he has also held major marketing and business development roles at SB/G Global Marketing, ProfitBricks, and PTC.
"Impact Radius has shown extremely impressive results. I am excited to join to help accelerate and grow the company to the next level," said Brazina. "Impact Radius' marquee customers, expanding solution portfolio, and growth puts the company in a strong position to truly transform business. Impact Radius is leading the development of a new category of marketing software providing unmatched confidence in marketing investments. I am looking forward to creating a larger discussion around the broader value delivered by the Impact Radius platform."
Furness is a seasoned executive who has been scaling business operations of media, advertising and tech companies for the past 16 years. Prior to joining Impact Radius, Furness spent four years at RhythmOne (formerly RadiumOne) with his most recent role being Managing Director Asia Pac. He has also held senior leadership roles in sales, strategy, cross platform and business development at Southern Cross Austereo, Macquarie Radio Network and MI9 (formerly ninemsn).
"After meeting the executive team, learning more about Impact Radius' advanced technology suite, expedited growth plans, client-focused approach, and desire to expand the Asia Pacific region specifically, I knew I wanted to be part of it," said Adam Furness, Managing Director, Asia Pacific. "Not only do they offer smart solutions that are designed to perform, Impact Radius is a business that consistently attracts exceptional talent around the globe. I'm thrilled to be joining the team at such a pivotal time and working together to accelerate the plans for growth across APAC."
Brazina and Furness will both report directly to CEO David Yovanno, respectively from Impact Radius' New York and Sydney offices.
About Impact Radius
Impact Radius is transforming the way advertisers handle media and performance marketing partnerships. Our natively integrated suite of products enables digital brands and agencies to maximize their return on global marketing spend by providing a single trusted view into the consumer journey - including all marketing touch points, from initial ad impression through acquisition, and across all devices and channels. Through advanced analytics, automation of critical marketing workflows, real-time fraud protection and delivery of actionable insights, Impact Radius is raising marketing investment confidence to a new level. Impact Radius drives revenue growth for global companies such as Advance Auto Parts, Cabela's, Getty Images, Lenovo, Shutterstock, Ticketmaster, and 1-800-Flowers. Impact Radius proudly employs more than 300 people across seven offices worldwide. To learn more visit www.ImpactRadius.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/impact-radius-appoints-martech-veteran-scott-brazina-as-companys-first-cmo-to-spearhead-global-brand-growth-300582497.html
SOURCE Impact Radius