Zach Parise’s shootout goal gave the Minnesota Wild a 3-2 victory over the Columbus Blue Jackets on Tuesday night at Nationwide Arena in Columbus, Ohio.
Parise scored the decisive marker in the fourth round of the shootout after Minnesota’s Chris Stewart and Columbus counterpart Artemi Panarin had traded goals earlier in the showdown session.
Jason Zucker and Charlie Coyle scored in regulation time as the Wild improved their road record to 10-14-1.
Panarin led the Blue Jackets with a goal and an assist in regulation time, while David Savard also tallied for the hosts.
The loss spoiled a 41-save effort from Columbus goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky. Minnesota netminder Devan Dubnyk posted 28 saves for the win as the Wild outshot the Blue Jackets 43-30.
Savard opened the scoring only 1:16 into the game as he put in a long shot from the point through traffic. The goal came after the Blue Jackets forced a turnover deep in Minnesota’s end.
Zucker drew the Wild even on a power play at 4:25 of the second period, stuffing home Jonas Brodin’s rebound. Savard was off for holding Marcus Foligno at the time.
Although the score was tied 1-1, the Wild had a decisive 31-17 edge in shots after 40 minutes.
Coyle put Minnesota ahead 2-1 with an unassisted effort off a counter-attack at 12:10 of the third period. But Panarin created a 2-2 deadlock less than three minutes later, taking a pass from Cam
Atkinson and firing in a slapshot. The second assist was provided by defenseman Seth Jones, whose presence in the game sparked controversy.
Earlier Tuesday, Wild coach Bruce Boudreau criticized the NHL for allowing Jones to play after he missed the All-Star Game with an illness. Boudreau called the decision “ridiculous” and “wrong” based on existing rules designed to deter stars from skipping the All-Star event.
Blue Jackets president John Davidson indicated in a statement that the league asked Columbus to keep Jones out of the weekend festivities in order to avoid a flu outbreak after he became ill in a game at Arizona.
Jones logged 26:37 of ice time while recording an even rating, two shots on goal and one hit. Meanwhile, Brandon Dubinsky returned to the Columbus lineup after missing six weeks due to a facial fracture.
--Field Level Media
 