New Funding Enables Threat Management and Collaboration Leader to Further Accelerate Global Customer Growth and Drive Continued Product Innovation
REDWOOD CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Anomali , the leading provider of threat management and collaboration solutions, announced today that it has closed an oversubscribed $40 million round of Series D funding. The round was led by Lumia Capital, a firm focused on helping technology market leaders expand globally.
Deutsche Telekom Capital Partners (DTCP), Telstra and Sozo Ventures also participated in the round along with returning investors GV, General Catalyst, IVP and Paladin Capital Group. The investment will allow Anomali to accelerate its growth in the US and globally and continue development of innovative cybersecurity solutions. The company also announced the appointment of Drew Hamer as Chief Financial Officer and Christopher Smith as Chief Revenue Officer.
“We were immediately impressed by Hugh, his leadership and vision, and the remarkable company accomplishments in this rapidly emerging area of cybersecurity,” said Martin Gedalin, Partner at Lumia Capital. “We believe there is a massive global need for enterprise threat intelligence solutions and we look forward to helping Anomali achieve its full potential.”
“Anomali delivers critical threat detection and response capabilities, working with premier organizations across all major industry verticals,” said Eric Ver Ploeg, Managing Director at DTCP in Silicon Valley. “Their strong customer base and threat exchange partnerships are clear indications of the need and value of the company’s cybersecurity, threat detection and sharing solutions.”
“We seek disruptive companies with great leaders and great solutions to address pressing cybersecurity challenges,” said Mark Sherman, Managing Director at Telstra Ventures. “Anomali adds critical attack detection and threat sharing capabilities to our portfolio, helping Telstra deliver a more complete suite of security offerings to our customers.”
This latest round of funding builds upon the significant momentum of 2017. In the last year, Anomali unveiled new capabilities in its ThreatStream, Anomali Enterprise and STAXX solutions, enabling advanced threat forensics and threat sharing capabilities. The company also:
launched a 48-bank threat sharing community in the United Arab Emirates , testified before the Homeland Security Committee regarding the importance of threat sharing, partnered with the Bank of England to collect, integrate, hunt and investigate cyber security intelligence data, and published a series of Cybersecurity Country Profiles, including Russia, China and Iran .
“2017 was another remarkable year for Anomali, in which we saw record customer growth and product innovation. We are thrilled to add Lumia Capital, DTCP, Telstra and Sozo Ventures to the Anomali family and are already preparing major initiatives with our newest partners,” said Hugh Njemanze, chief executive officer, Anomali. “Our latest investors ideally position us for growth in Europe, Japan and Australia.”
Anomali continues to build on this growth in 2018, welcoming new executive hires with deep experience and industry knowledge. Hamer, who will function as the new CFO, brings over 25 years of executive financial experience, most recently from ON24 and Keynote Systems, where he developed an expertise with high growth SaaS businesses. Smith, the new CRO, joins Anomali following a long career in cybersecurity sales leadership roles at ArcSight, Invincea and Instart Logic.
This announcement marks a total of $96 million total investment raised by Anomali over four rounds of funding.
The company will host its third annual threat intelligence conference, Detect ’18 , in Washington, DC September 19-21, 2018.
About Anomali
Anomali delivers critical threat intelligence capabilities, allowing organizations to detect, investigate and respond to serious external threats. The company’s unmatched customer base spans all major verticals and includes partnerships with many ISACs and threat exchanges. Anomali integrates with internal infrastructure to identify new attacks, or search forensically over the past year to discover existing breaches, and enables security teams to quickly understand and contain threats. Anomali also offers STAXX, a free tool to collect and share threat intelligence, and provides a free, out of the box intelligence feed, Anomali Limo. To learn more, visit www.anomali.com and follow us on Twitter: @anomali and LinkedIn .
About Lumia Capital
Lumia Capital is an expansion-stage venture capital firm that partners with technology companies in the U.S. and select global markets to accelerate international expansion, business development, and mobile partnership opportunities. Based in San Francisco, the Firm works closely with management teams by pairing Silicon Valley insights with global knowledge sharing and relationships. Representative investments include: OpenDNS (Cisco), Careem, Pagerduty, Mulesoft, Greenhouse Software, Hired, Kabbage, Instacarro, Cadre, and Procore.
About DTCP (Deutsche Telekom Capital Partners)
DTCP is Deutsche Telekom’s investment management group with over $1 billion assets under management and advisory, and a portfolio of over 70 companies. The group is dedicated to providing venture capital, special situation investments, and advisory services to the technology, media and telecommunication sectors. It operates and invests in the US, Israel and Europe. To learn more about DTCP, visit www.telekom-capital.com or @TelekomCapital on Twitter.
About Telstra Ventures
Telstra Ventures is the corporate venture capital arm of Telstra. Based in Silicon Valley, Asia and Australia, we’ve invested in more than 50 leading technology companies since 2011. We’re now rated among the top 21 most active corporate venture capital firms by CB insights. Our team of investors and business leaders search the globe for the very best in tech innovation to connect world class products and lighthouse leaders with Telstra customers. www.telstraglobal.com/ventures
About Sozo Ventures
Sozo Ventures is an expansion-stage VC firm focused on connecting the most ambitious entrepreneurial teams with the world's most advanced and respected customers across the globe. Sozo invests in category leaders in AI/IoT, enterprise cloud, big data, e-commerce, fintech, healthcare IT, and other emerging sectors. With an additional office and business development team in Tokyo, Sozo Ventures has helped bridge the gap between Asian enterprises and US startups since 2011. Learn more about Sozo Ventures at http://www.sozo.ventures/ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005463/en/
for Anomali
Brigit Carlson
brigit.carlson@grayling.com
Source: Anomali