MELVILLE, N.Y. and DAVIDSON, N.C.,
FISCAL Q1 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
Net sales of $768.6 million, a 12% YoY increase, with approximately 400 basis points of acquisitive growth Operating income of $99.3 million, an increase of approximately 10% YoY Operating margin of 12.9%, including a negative 50 basis point impact from DECO Diluted EPS of $1.05, up approximately 9% YoY versus diluted EPS of $0.96 in the prior year quarter
MSC INDUSTRIAL SUPPLY CO. (NYSE: MSM) , "MSC" or the "Company," a premier distributor of Metalworking and Maintenance, Repair and Operations ("MRO") products and services to industrial customers throughout North America, today reported financial results for its fiscal 2018 first quarter ended December 2, 2017. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors approved an additional 2 million share repurchase authorization, bringing the total current authorization to approximately 2.8 million shares.
Financial Highlights 1
FY18 Q1
FY17 Q1
Change
Net Sales
$768.6
$686.3
12.0%
Operating Income
99.3
90.6
9.6%
% of Net Sales
12.9%
13.2%
Net Income
59.6
54.3
9.8%
Diluted EPS
$1.05
2
$0.96
3
9.4%
1 In millions unless noted. 2 Based on 56.5 million diluted shares outstanding for FY18 Q1. 3 Based on 56.6 million diluted shares outstanding for FY17 Q1.
Erik Gershwind, president and chief executive officer, said, "The environment remained solid in the first fiscal quarter, and our own business reflected this momentum, with growth rates improving or holding steady across all customer types. We delivered low double-digit sales growth on an ADS basis, and another quarter of sequential gross margin stability and productivity improvements, with operating expenses as a percentage of revenue declining once again."
Rustom Jilla, executive vice president and chief financial officer, added, "Our reported average daily sales rose 12%, operating margin was 12.9%, and EPS rose by 9.4% over the prior year's fiscal first quarter. Excluding our recently acquired DECO business, our quarterly average daily sales rose 7.7% over the same period a year ago, our gross margin was down slightly, our operating expenses to sales improved, and our operating margin expanded by 20 basis points to 13.4%. * We also had a strong quarter in terms of cash generation, with net cash provided by operating activities up 8% to $82 million. Finally, the recently announced 21% quarterly dividend increase and the additional share repurchase authorization are reflective of the significant positive impact of tax reform on our earnings and cash flow, as well as our ongoing commitment to allocating capital to enhance total shareholder returns."
Gershwind concluded, "Looking forward, it is an exciting time for U.S. manufacturing and MSC on multiple fronts. First, after several years of a weak pricing environment, many suppliers have now raised list prices, and we expect to follow suit in the near-term. Second, customer sentiment and industry indices are positive, pointing to continued U.S. manufacturing growth prospects. And third, we see the recent tax reform as a significant tailwind not just for our own EPS, but also for our customers and the broader manufacturing economy in the coming years. We are well positioned to take advantage of this better environment, particularly given the improvements that we have made to our business in recent years."
The Company has increased its buyback authorization by 2 million shares. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, market conditions, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any specific number of shares and may be suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice.
Outlook
Based on current market conditions, the Company expects net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to be between $761 million and $775 million. At the midpoint, average daily sales are expected to increase roughly 9.1% compared to last year's second quarter. The Company's guidance for diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 is $1.93 to $2.03, which includes the following components:
An estimated beneficial impact of between $0.27 to $0.29 from the lower effective tax rate (combined federal and state) required to bring our first half into alignment with the expected full year rate; and An estimated net one-time beneficial impact of between $0.66 and $0.70 that reflects the re-valuation of tax-related balance sheet items. An estimated diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, excluding the positive impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act noted above, of between $1.00 and $1.04.
Conference Call Information
MSC will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EST to review the Company's fiscal 2018 first quarter results. The call, accompanying slides, and other operational statistics may be accessed at: http://investor.mscdirect.com . The conference call may also be accessed at 1-877-443-5575 (U.S.), 1-855-669-9657 (Canada) or 1-412-902-6618 (international).
An online archive of the broadcast will be available until January 17, 2018.
The Company's reporting date for fiscal 2018 second quarter results is scheduled for April 10, 2018.
About MSC Industrial Supply Co. MSC Industrial Supply Co. (NYSE:MSM) is a leading North American distributor of metalworking and maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO) products and services. We help our customers drive greater productivity, profitability and growth with more than 1 million products, inventory management and other supply chain solutions, and deep expertise from over 75 years of working with customers across industries.
Our experienced team of more than 6,500 associates is dedicated to working side by side with our customers to help drive results for their businesses - from keeping operations running efficiently today to continuously rethinking, retooling, and optimizing for a more productive tomorrow.
For more information on MSC, please visit mscdirect.com .
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this Press Release may constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including statements about expected future results, expected benefits from our investment and strategic plans, and expected future margins, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The inclusion of any statement in this release does not constitute an admission by MSC or any other person that the events or circumstances described in such statement are material. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include: general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, changing customer and product mixes, compet