RESTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Govplace, a leading solutions provider for the public sector, announced today the appointment of Steve Hoffman as the Vice President of Sales. Steve brings over 28 years of extensive technology sales experience to Govplace. He has a strong track record of building organizations for sustained growth and an extensive background in vertical markets including: finance, healthcare, DHS and civilian.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005978/en/
Steve Hoffman, VP of Sales (Photo: Business Wire)
“I am excited to join Govplace and work with our partners and customers to deliver mission critical technology solutions for Cloud, Cyber Security and IT Automation,” said Steve. In addition to the creation and execution of Govplace’s go-to-market sales strategy, Steve will serve on the company’s executive team and report to Govplace Chief Executive Officer, Adam Robinson.
“I am delighted to have Steve join the Govplace team,” said Robinson. “He is a high energy, strategic, ethical leader who brings a wealth of market knowledge and skills to complement our existing high-performance sales team and support our continued company growth.”
Prior to joining Govplace, Steve was the Area Vice President for Micro Focus Government Solutions and Palo Alto Networks, helping to grow and expand their federal business. While at Micro Focus he was responsible for building and leading a Federal sales organization for the cyber security product line. Prior to that, Steve served as the Vice President of Cisco Systems Civilian and Homeland Security business practice and was responsible for the sales, engineering, and support professionals delivering technology solutions to Civilian Agencies.
About Govplace
Govplace is a value-added reseller and systems integrator, exclusively focused on providing the public sector with best of breed products, services and solutions. We bring a unique combination of California innovation and beltway understanding into each engagement to ensure our federal customers are achieving measurable business and technical outcomes. Guided by a deep understanding of government contracting, an expansive portfolio of contracting vehicles, and demonstrated expertise in leading technologies and solutions, Govplace takes a strategic approach to technology-lead transformation and modernization to improve business and operational efficiency. Our core capabilities cover Cloud Computing & Infrastructure, Cyber Security & Privacy, as well as IT Automation. Visit www.govplace.com for more information.
Govplace is headquartered in Reston, Virginia. For more information, please visit: www.govplace.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005978/en/
Govplace
Shannon Edwards, Marketing Coordinator
571-409-5196
sedwards@govplace.com
Source: Govplace