SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Angel Island Capital (“AIC”), a San Francisco-based alternative investment advisor and credit manager, today announced the appointment of Lynette Vanderwarker as Chief Strategy Officer. Ms. Vanderwarker joins AIC with nearly 20 years of experience at leading asset management firms and a strong track record of building investment management businesses.
AIC was formed in 2008 as a specialty finance portfolio company of Golden Gate Capital (“GGC”), a leading private equity firm with over $15 billion of committed capital under management. Angel Island Capital Management (“AICM”), the investment advisory arm of AIC, is a multi-strategy credit manager with approximately $3 billion in investable assets that is focused on bank loans and high-yield bonds.
Dev Gopalan, AIC’s CEO, said, “Having worked with Lynette for many years, her expertise designing alternative credit strategies and working with sophisticated institutional investors makes her ideally suited to help AIC with the impending launch of our first Fund in the market. Lynette is an outstanding addition to the AIC team.”
Rob Little, a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital and Angel Island Capital Board Member, added, “Lynette’s breadth of asset management experience is a perfect complement to our talented AIC team and will help steer AIC into its next chapter of growth.”
As Chief Strategy Officer, Ms. Vanderwarker will focus on enhancing AIC’s business development and client relations functions, working closely with Mr. Gopalan and Jonathan Cohen, Head of Business Development.
Mr. Cohen said, “I’m very excited to welcome Lynette to our team and to partner with her again, after many years working together at BlackRock. Lynette brings a solutions-oriented approach to product strategy and business development that will help meaningfully differentiate our connectivity with sophisticated institutional and high net worth investors.”
Ms. Vanderwarker commented, “I’m honored to take on the role of Chief Strategy Officer at Angel Island Capital at such an exciting inflection point for the firm, and to join such a talented group of investment professionals.”
Ms. Vanderwarker previously spent five years with KKR, where most recently she led the Credit Strategies Group as a Managing Director. Prior to KKR, Ms. Vanderwarker spent ten years at BlackRock, where she was involved in a broad range of activities including leading the Fixed Income Strategy Group, as well as structuring and marketing the firm’s hedge fund strategies. Earlier in her career, she worked at Goldman Sachs Asset Management as a Vice President in the Global Manager Strategies Group. Ms. Vanderwarker earned a Bachelor’s degree from Northwestern University and a Master’s degree in Public Administration from Columbia University. Ms. Vanderwarker currently serves on the Board of Trustees of the Brownstone School in New York and is a member of the Executive Committee of Northwestern University’s Women Initiative Network (WIN).
About Angel Island Capital
Angel Island Capital (“AIC”) is a multi-strategy alternative credit investment platform based in San Francisco that was established in 2008 as a specialty finance portfolio company of Golden Gate Capital. It focuses on corporate debt investments that are highly complementary to Golden Gate Capital’s traditional private equity practice. AIC operates with approximately $3 billion of assets invested across a range of credit strategies. For more information, visit www.aicap.com .
About Golden Gate Capital
Golden Gate Capital is a San Francisco-based private equity investment firm with over $15 billion of committed capital. The firm’s perpetual structure and highly flexible investment mandate enable it to invest in multiple asset classes across a wide range of industries to build meaningful businesses in partnership with management over an indefinite time horizon. The principals of Golden Gate Capital have a long and successful history of investing across a wide range of industries and transaction types, including going-privates, corporate divestitures, and recapitalizations, as well as debt and public equity investments. Notable investments sponsored by Golden Gate Capital include Nassau Re, Green Street Advisors, Makena Capital Management, Infor, Springs Window Fashions and Red Lobster. For more information, visit www.goldengatecap.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005665/en/
Sard Verbinnen & Co
David Isaacs, 415-618-8750
or
Alyssa Linn, 310-201-2040
Source: Angel Island Capital