MIAMI, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Russell Reynolds Associates , a leading global search and leadership advisory firm, today announced that Hoda Tahoun has joined the firm in the Consumer Practice as a leader of the Leisure and Hospitality team. Based in Miami, she advises U.S.-based and global companies on developing and building strong executive teams while also guiding clients on long-term leadership strategies, including succession planning.
"Hoda has deep industry connections with top executives in the travel, hospitality, leisure and real estate industries," said Constantine Alexandrakis, leader of Russell Reynolds Associates' U.S. Region. "Her work recruiting and advising international senior management teams in these dynamic and agile sectors will have an immediate impact on our clients' growth capabilities as they look for ways to leverage their human capital for success."
Tahoun joins Russell Reynolds Associates from another global executive search firm, where she was a Principal in the Global Hospitality and Real Estate Practice. Previously, she was a Partner at a boutique executive search firm which focused on real estate, hospitality and infrastructure. Earlier, she was an Assistant Vice President at SHUAA Capital in Dubai, where she led investment banking efforts at the firm. Tahoun has also held roles at American Express, Bank of America and Citi.
Tahoun holds a B.S. in finance from Rutgers University and an M.B.A. in international business and finance from the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University.
About Russell Reynolds Associates
Russell Reynolds Associates is a global search and leadership advisory firm. Our 425+ consultants in 46 offices work with public, private and nonprofit organizations across all industries and regions. We help our clients build teams of transformational leaders who can meet today's challenges and anticipate the digital, economic and political trends that are reshaping the global business environment. From helping boards with their structure, culture and effectiveness to identifying, assessing and defining the best leadership for organizations – our teams bring their decades of expertise to help clients solve their most complex leadership issues. www.russellreynolds.com
Contact:
Vijaya Singh
Russell Reynolds Associates
212-351-1987
vijaya.singh@russellreynolds.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/russell-reynolds-associates-hires-hoda-tahoun-300589731.html
SOURCE Russell Reynolds Associates