VALHALLA, N.Y., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- USI Insurance Services (“ USI ”) announced today it has acquired Ridge Consulting Group, Inc. The employee benefits firm will be integrated into USI’s Wichita, KS, office. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Donald McG. Woods, USI Mountain regional chief executive officer, said: “We are excited to welcome Robert and his team to the USI family. Their strong insurance knowledge, consultative selling approach, and long-term relationships across the state of Kansas complement our USI ONE Advantage ® platform.”
Robert J. Langhofer, president, Ridge Consulting Group, Inc., said: “We are looking forward to joining USI. Our clients will continue to benefit from our coordinated solutions and support on a local level, but now they will also have access to USI’s expanded suite of employee benefits solutions and proprietary resources on a national level.”
A bout USI
USI is one of the largest insurance brokerage and consulting firms in the world, delivering property and casualty, employee benefits, personal risk, program and retirement solutions to large risk management clients, middle market companies, smaller firms and individuals. Headquartered in Valhalla, New York, USI connects together over 6,000 industry leading professionals across more than 150 offices to serve clients’ local, national and international needs. USI has become a premier insurance brokerage and consulting firm by leveraging the USI ONE Advantage ® , an interactive platform that integrates proprietary and innovative client solutions, networked local resources and expertise, and enterprise-wide collaboration to deliver customized results with positive, bottom line impact. USI attracts best-in-class industry talent with a long history of deep and continuing investment in our local communities . For more information, visit usi.com .
###
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/577aac45-ab7e-4b02-b9c5-ddb0a566531a
Edward J. Bowler USI Insurance Services 914.749.8504 ed.bowler@usi.com Diana R. Saglimbeni USI Insurance Services 914.747.8637 diana.saglimbeni@usi.com
Source:USI Insurance Services