NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE -- Costas Inc. (OTC MARKETS:CSSI) Costas Inc. (CSSI or “the Company”) and its subsidiary AuthentaTrade Inc. (“AuthentaTrade”) are pleased to announce the Company has now placed the AuthentaTrade trade platform on “Amazon Web Services” to assist in the onboarding of its 75,000 KYC’d client list, acquired in the Company’s full acquisition of AuthentaTrade and its assets earlier this month. In addition, this robust and secure solution provided by the world’s largest cloud service provider will enable onboarding as many as 100,000 new clients per hour.
The upgrade to a cloud solution was needed to service the expected demand for AuthentaTrade’s anticipated launch mid March 2018. Costas, through AuthentaTrade, will now have the ability to support the onboarding of as many as 100,000 clients hourly. Based on the backlog of existing client account applications on several industry leading exchanges, AuthentaTrade has secured the infrastructure to capitalize on the flood of pending clients waiting to open accounts elsewhere. AuthentaTrade has also built out its own proprietary KYC verification system that starts by accepting a client’s credit card, by then verifying the identity of the applicant against a number of confidential parameters including past transactions, and by creating a Distributed Asset Technology style verification of a potential client’s previous activity. This provides a very robust and efficient onboarding process.
About COSTAS (CSSI): http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/CSSI/profile
AuthentaTrade: http://authenta.trade/
COSTAS INC. is a publicly traded company on the OTC Markets under the symbol ‘CSSI’. Costas Inc. invests in early stage Digital Currency projects. We believe strongly in the growth of Distributed Asset Technology and its integration into Financial Technologies (FINTech. Distributed Networks are the next massive internet investment market, as social media was 10 years ago. Costas Inc. strongly believes that a Distributed Asset Technology product will be the next Facebook or Twitter. The current US market of FINTech is approximately $1.24 Trillion.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release and the statements of representatives of Costas, Inc. (the "Company") related thereto contain, or may contain, among other things, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included herein are "forward-looking statements," including any other statements of non-historical information. These forward-looking statements are subject to significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are often identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "guidance," "projects," "may," "could," "would," "should," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "ultimately" or similar expressions. All forward-looking statements involve material assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and the expectations contained in such statements may prove to be incorrect. Investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company's actual results (including, without limitation, Costas’ ability to advance its business, generate revenue and profit and operate as a public company) could differ materially from those stated or anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including factors and risks discussed in the periodic reports that the Company files with OTC Markets (Pink Sheets). All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. The Company undertakes no duty to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law.
For further information contact:
ir@costasinc.com
Costas Corporate Phone Number
702-448-2911
Source:Costas, Inc.