ST. CATHARINES, Ontario--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Algoma Central Corporation (“Algoma” or the “Company”) (TSX:ALC), a leading provider of marine transportation services, announced today that the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) has accepted its notice of intention to proceed with a normal course issuer bid (the “NCIB”).
Algoma’s Board of Directors believes that the market price of Algoma’s common shares (“Shares”), from time to time, may not reflect the inherent value of the Company and purchases of Shares pursuant to the NCIB may represent an appropriate and desirable use of funds. Any purchases made under the NCIB will be made by Algoma subject to favourable market conditions at the prevailing market price at the time of acquisition through the facilities of the TSX and/or alternative Canadian trading systems.
Pursuant to the notice, during the twelve month period commencing January 29, 2018 and ending January 28, 2019, Algoma may purchase up to 1,927,615 of its Shares, representing approximately 5% of the 38,552,315 Shares that were issued and outstanding as of January 16, 2018. Under the NCIB, other than purchases made pursuant to block purchase exemptions, Algoma may purchase up to 1,838 Shares on the TSX during any trading day, which represents approximately 25% of the average daily trading volume of the Shares on the TSX for the past six calendar months, being 7,353 Shares. Any Shares purchased under the NCIB will be cancelled.
Although Algoma intends to purchase Shares under its NCIB there can be no assurances that any such purchases will be completed.
About Algoma Central Corporation
Algoma Central Corporation is a publicly traded company which operates the largest Canadian flag fleet of dry and liquid bulk carriers on the Great Lakes - St. Lawrence Waterway, including self-unloading dry-bulk carriers, gearless dry bulk carriers and product tankers. Algoma also owns ocean self-unloading dry-bulk vessels operating in international markets. Algoma has begun an expansion into international short-sea markets through it 50% interests in NovaAlgoma Cement Carriers and NovaAlgoma Short-Sea Carriers. Algoma Central trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALC”. For more information, please visit www.algonet.com .
Forward-looking Statements
Certain information contained in this press release may constitute forward-looking information under applicable securities laws, including statements related to Algoma’s intentions with respect to the NCIB and purchases thereunder and the effects of repurchases under the bid. Forward looking statements, by their very nature, involve inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on several assumptions, both general and specific. Much of this information can be identified by looking for words such as “believe”, “expects”, “expected”, “will”, “intends”, “projects”, “anticipates”, “estimates”, “continues” or similar words. Purchases made under the NCIB are not guaranteed and may be suspended at the discretion of Algoma’s Board of Directors.
Forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Forward looking statements contained in this press release are made as of the date hereof and are subject to change. Algoma assumes no obligation to revise or update forward looking statements to reflect new circumstances, except as required by law.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005637/en/
Algoma Central Corporation
Ken Bloch Soerensen
President and Chief Executive Officer
905-687-7885
or
Peter D. Winkley, CPA, CA
Chief Financial Officer
905-687-7897
Source: Algoma Central Corporation