1stWEST Mergers & Acquisitions Served as Advisor to Strauss Lock Distributors
EVERGREEN, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 1stWEST M&A , a leading investment banking and M&A advisory, today announced that it has brokered the successful sale of yet another company. Serving as Strauss Lock Distributors’ exclusive representative, 1stWEST M&A brokered the sale of Strauss Lock Distributors to High Road Capital Partners’ portfolio company Midwest Wholesale Hardware . ( Link to High Road Capital Partners’ news release. )
Strauss Lock Distributors is a residential lock distributor with reach across the United States. The company has earned a sterling reputation for its expertise in residential door hardware experts, its rapid fulfillment of products, and its unmatched mastery of inventorying, configuring, and keying locksets.
“When we first engaged with Strauss Lock Distributors as a client, we immediately recognized Strauss as a top-quality company, and a genuine standout in the industrial distribution sector,” said John D. Wagner, Managing Director, 1stWEST M&A. “High Road Capital Partners and Midwest Wholesale Hardware have also recognized that value, and Midwest Wholesale Hardware has now acquired Strauss Lock Distributors in a transaction that will likely bring stellar results to both buyer and seller. We were happy to play a part in the process.”
About High Road Capital Partners
High Road Capital Partners is a private equity firm focused on smaller middle-market transactions. High Road was formed in 2007 and has raised over $470 million of committed capital since inception. High Road focuses on niche-leading companies with revenues of $10 million to $100 million and EBITDA of $3 million to $10 million. Once a company is acquired, High Road works in partnership with management to take the companies to the next level through a combination of organic growth initiatives and add-on acquisitions. www.highroadcap.com
About 1stWest Mergers & Acquisitions
1stWEST Mergers & Acquisitions is full service, international investment banking and advisory firm that is focused on the underserved lower middle-market of companies with sales of up to $100 million. The firm has built a unique business solutions platform of assisting owners and shareholders in selling their companies, acquiring other businesses or raising growth capital. With Managing Directors in the US, Europe, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Brazil, Argentina and Chile, 1stWEST M&A is uniquely positioned to serve its clients around the globe. Learn more: www.1stWestMA.com
To contact John Wagner directly, call (919) 796-9984, or email: j.wagner@1stWestMA.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005580/en/
Media:
1stWest Mergers & Acquisitions
John D. Wagner, 919-796-9984
j.wagner@1stwestma.com
Source: 1stWest Mergers & Acquisitions