PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Institutional Property Advisors (IPA), a division of Marcus & Millichap (NYSE: MMI), announced the sale of Red Mountain Villas, a 768-unit apartment complex in Phoenix. The $110 million sales price equates to $143,229 per unit. The sales price is the second-largest for a single multifamily property in Arizona.
“Red Mountain Villas’ exceptional location in the center of the Phoenix metropolitan area provides residents with outstanding access to the Valley’s top employment corridors,” says Steve Gebing, senior managing director. “Excellent submarket fundamentals, the rapidly increasing costs of multifamily construction, and escalating asking rents for newly constructed core assets in neighboring submarkets enhance the value of this asset and make it a prime candidate for the implementation of an exterior and interior renovation program.”
Gebing, and Cliff David, senior managing director, represented the seller, Weidner Apartment Homes, and procured the buyer, Knightvest Capital.
Red Mountain Villas was built in three phases between 1987 and 1996 on nearly 30 acres at 815 North 52nd St. in Phoenix. The property is among the top ten largest multifamily assets in Arizona. The 44 th Street/Gateway Corridor and airport area, Papago Park Center, lakeside developments of Marina Heights and Hayden Ferry, Downtown Phoenix, and the Central Avenue Office Corridor employment centers are within an eight-mile radius of the property. The community features many shared amenities, including an oversized koi pond, six resort-inspired swimming pools and access to the Papago Golf Course.
About Marcus & Millichap (NYSE: MMI)
With over 1,700 investment sales and financing professionals located throughout the United States and Canada, Marcus & Millichap is a leading specialist in commercial real estate investment sales, financing, research and advisory services. Founded in 1971, the firm closed nearly 9,000 transactions in 2016 with a value of approximately $42.3 billion. The company has perfected a powerful system for marketing properties that combines investment specialization, local market expertise, the industry’s most comprehensive research, state-of-the-art technology, and relationships with the largest pool of qualified investors. To learn more, please visit: www.MarcusMillichap.com
About Institutional Property Advisors
With a network of senior-level investment advisors located throughout the United States, Institutional Property Advisors (IPA) is qualified to meet the needs of institutional and major private investors. IPA’s combination of real estate investment and capital markets expertise, industry-leading technology, superior support services and acclaimed research offer customized solutions for the acquisition and disposition of institutional properties and portfolios. www.IPAusa.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005469/en/
Marcus & Millichap
Gina Relva, Public Relations Director
(925) 953-1716
Source: Marcus & Millichap