SAN DIEGO, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Kopari beauty is happy to announce that the company has hired veteran beauty professional Kim Magee as the Vice President of Sales.
Magee brings a wealth of industry experience and knowledge of the retail beauty space with particular expertise in North American and International retail strategy, wholesale relationships, planning and forecasting, and P& L Management. An accomplished executive with multi-level experience in sales, education and marketing, Magee spent the past 15 years in leadership roles with Estée Lauder's Too Faced Beauty, Coty and LVMH, to name a few. During this time, Magee successfully developed, led and executed various sales strategies resulting in an increase of business in North America for each beauty company. Most recently, she served as the Vice President of Sales for Too Faced Cosmetics from 2014 to 2016 where she oversaw a marked increase in sales.
"Kim joins us at time of significant growth and innovation," says Chief Executive Officer Bryce Goldman. "Kim's vast experience in sales and retail strategy, along with a proven track record of success with some of the biggest beauty brands today will play an important part in our retail strategy and structure. We are ecstatic to have her join Kopari beauty to bring her exceptional work to our company for new and continued success in 2018 and beyond."
In her role with Kopari beauty, Kim Magee will lead the charge for sales in North America and International markets to provide thoughtful advisement on results-driven tactics in the areas of sales management, strategic marketing and more.
"It's a thrilling time for Kopari beauty," says Kim Magee. "I look forward to working alongside the incredible team and co-founders for continuous success across every channel in beauty."
About Kopari:
Say Aloha to Kopari Beauty— a coconut-powered lifestyle-beauty brand based in San Diego.
Kopari's coconut oil beauty is powerful beauty. They combine their superfood oil with high performance ingredients to create natural born luxury for gorgeous skin and healthy hair. Sustainably manufactured in Southern California, Kopari sources the purest, most nutrient-rich coconut oil from small family farms in the Philippines. Their small batch coconuts are hand-picked at peak quality, never exposed to extreme temperatures and ever-so-carefully cold pressed.
Launched in 2015, Kopari was founded by Hawaiian-born naturalist and certified organic chef, Kiana Cabell, third generation beauty experts and industry veterans Bryce and Gigi Goldman, and health entrepreneur and co-founder of Suja Juice, James Brennan.
Loved by beauty enthusiasts, wellness gurus and digital influencers around the world, Kopari has quickly become the most talked about coconut in the beauty biz. So now that you know, get your coconut on.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kopari-beauty-hires-kim-magee-as-companys-vice-president-of-sales-300586266.html
SOURCE Kopari