NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on ARE, BXP, DEA, and PDM which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . National Real Estate Investor reported earlier this month that rising interest rates are to blame for an anticipated decrease in acquisitions by Office REITs in 2018 and a greater focus on development/redevelopment projects, according to Chris Wimmer, Vice President of REITs at Chicago-based Morningstar Credit Ratings LLC. This morning, WallStEquities.com features four industry players to see how they have fared over the previous trading sessions: Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc. (NYSE: ARE), Boston Properties Inc. (NYSE: BXP), Easterly Government Properties Inc. (NYSE: DEA), and Piedmont Office Realty Trust Inc. (NYSE: PDM). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Alexandria Real Estate Equities
Shares in Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc. rose 1.00%, ending Tuesday's trading session at $125.75. The stock recorded a trading volume of 723,858 shares, which was higher than its three months average volume of 711,350 shares. The Company's shares have gained 2.94% over the last three months and 12.12% over the past year. The stock is trading 3.33% above its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of the Company have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 45.42.
On January 18 th , 2018, Alexandria Real Estate Equities announced that it was awarded a 2017 Governor's Environmental and Economic Leadership Award - California's highest environmental honor. The Company accepted its award in the "Sustainable Practices, Communities or Facilities" category at a ceremony held on January 17 th , 2018 at the California Environmental Protection Agency headquarters in Sacramento, California. Get the full research report on ARE for free by clicking below at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=ARE
Boston Properties
Boston Properties Inc.'s stock declined 1.58%, closing the day at $119.42. A total volume of 1.10 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 749,980 shares. The Company's shares are trading 3.61% below their 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of Boston Properties have an RSI of 33.76.
On January 19 th , 2018, Boston Properties announced that it will host a conference call and audio webcast on January 31 st , 2018, at 10:00 a.m. ET to discuss its financial results for the fourth quarter 2017 and provide an update. The live audio webcast of the call may be accessed under the Investor Relations section of the Company's website. Access the free research report on BXP now by signing up at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=BXP
Easterly Government Properties
On Tuesday, shares in Easterly Government Properties Inc. recorded a trading volume of 354,898 shares. The stock ended the day flat at $20.56. The Company's shares have advanced 2.65% in the previous three months and 4.84% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 200-day moving average by 0.31%. Furthermore, shares of the Company, which focuses on office properties leased to US government agencies, have an RSI of 42.70.
On January 17 th , 2018, Easterly Government Properties announced the tax characteristics of the 2017 distributions on its common stock. The tax reporting will be done on Form 1099-DIV, and shareholders are encouraged to consult with their personal tax advisors as to the specific tax treatment of these distributions. Are you already registered with Wall St. Equities? Do so now for free, and get the report on DEA at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=DEA
Piedmont Office Realty Trust
Piedmont Office Realty Trust Inc.'s stock dropped 1.49%, finishing yesterday's session at $19.18. A total volume of 1.27 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 957,360 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 2.20% in the previous three months. The stock is trading below its 50-day moving average by 1.52%. Additionally, shares of Piedmont Office Realty Trust have an RSI of 42.10.
On January 17 th , 2018, Piedmont Office Realty Trust announced that it will release its fourth-quarter and annual 2017 financial results on February 07 th , 2018, after the close of trading on the NYSE. An audio webcast and a conference call are scheduled for February 08 th , 2018, at 10:00 a.m. ET. The webcast may be accessed under the Investor Relations section of the Company's website. Aspiring Member, please take a moment to register below for your free research report on PDM at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=PDM
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/technical-perspectives-on-reit-stocks----alexandria-real-estate-equities-boston-properties-easterly-government-properties-and-piedmont-office-realty-trust-300590933.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities