NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Korn Ferry (NYSE:KFY) today announced that David Satler has joined the firm as a senior client partner in the financial services practice. He will be based in the New York City office.
Mr. Satler brings to the firm more than 30 years of experience in financial operations and strategy, wealth and investment management and organizational design. He joins Korn Ferry from a major multinational bank where he was chief operating officer. There, he oversaw all aspects of the multibillion-dollar business, including financial management, operational modeling, technology and business change management, client experience, risk and governance, and people and talent.
Prior to that role, Mr. Satler served as head of human resources at UBS Wealth Management, U.S., UBS Financial Services, Inc.
“David’s deep expertise in human capital management in the financial sector is unparalleled,” said Mark Arian, CEO, Hay Group, Korn Ferry. “He is a global leader with a track record of driving profitable growth, and will bring great value to our clients and firm. We are thrilled to have him join the team.”
Mr. Satler earned a B.S. in Accounting from Bentley College, Waltham, MA, and completed executive coursework with specialization in negotiation skills at Harvard Business School. He is a certified public accountant, an active member of the National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD), and a board and executive committee member for the T.J. Martell Foundation.
About Korn Ferry
Korn Ferry is a global organizational consulting firm. We help companies design their organization – the structure, the roles and responsibilities, as well as how they compensate, develop and motivate their people. As importantly, we help organizations select and hire the talent they need to execute their strategy. Our approximately 7,000 colleagues serve clients in more than 50 countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005257/en/
Korn Ferry
Liz Allison, 310-556-8583
Liz.Allison@kornferry.com
Source: Korn Ferry