VANCOUVER, Wash., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- nLIGHT, Inc., a leading provider in the design and manufacture of high-power semiconductor and fiber lasers, today announced the appointment of Ran Bareket as vice president and chief financial officer effective immediately. Bareket joins nLIGHT from Orbotech and brings extensive background in corporate finance, treasury, financial planning, investor relations and strategic planning.
“Ran has an impressive background with strong leadership in finance, operations and business management,” said Scott Keeney, co-founder and chief executive officer. “We are honored to have him join our management team to support our continued growth.”
“I am excited to join nLIGHT’s strong leadership team,” said Bareket. "nLIGHT is well positioned as a technology leader in the growing market for high-power semiconductor and fiber lasers and I am delighted to be a part of it.”
Prior to joining nLIGHT, Bareket served as corporate vice president and chief financial officer for Orbotech (NASDAQ:ORBK), a leading provider of process innovation technologies, solutions and equipment serving the global electronics manufacturing industry. Bareket has held multiple positions including corporate vice president and principal accounting officer at Kulicke & Soffa, a global leader in the design and manufacture of electronic assembly equipment.
Bareket holds a diploma of Electrical Engineering from the Technion Israel, a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Management from Tel Aviv Management College in Israel, and a Masters in Business Administration from Pennsylvania State University. Bareket is a certified public accountant.
About nLIGHT, Inc.
nLIGHT is a leading provider of high-power semiconductor and fiber lasers sold across a wide range of applications in the industrial, microfabrication, aerospace and defense markets. nLIGHT employs over 1,000 people. For more information, visit www.nLIGHT.net .
CONTACT:
Melissa Taylor
melissa.taylor@nlight.net
(503) 360-4641
Source: nLIGHT, Inc.