CHICAGO, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cheng Cohen , the franchise industry's full service boutique law firm, announced today that Aaron-Michael Sapp has been named a partner at the firm, effective January 1, 2018.
"Over the years, Aaron-Michael has consistently demonstrated the partnership values of legal excellence, dedication to the firm and the franchise community, and he has delivered top performances on behalf of the firm's clients," said Amy Cheng, founding partner of Cheng Cohen, LLC. "Our people are critical to our mission of providing excellent client service and we look forward to witnessing Aaron-Michael's continued growth and future at Cheng Cohen."
Since joining Cheng Cohen in 2012, Aaron-Michael has concentrated his practice on franchise and distribution disputes, and he has handled matters in state and federal courts and in arbitrations across the country. Aaron-Michael is experienced in many aspects of franchise litigation, including enforcing post-termination restrictive covenants, pursuing franchisees for prematurely closing their businesses, and defending against both franchisee-specific and system-wide claims for breach of contract and fraud. Aaron-Michael graduated first in his class from the Miller College of Business at Ball State University and attended law school at the Michigan State University College of Law, where he was a member of the school's trial practice program. He also received the Jurisprudence Achievement Award in ten courses and graduated second in his class.
Cheng Cohen is recognized as one of the leading franchise firms in the country providing franchisors, licensors and manufacturers with the comprehensive business-oriented legal services, litigation support and development assistance needed to efficiently and effectively expand their brands around the world. Most recently the firm received Tier 1 recognition in the 2017 U.S. News Best Lawyers® Best Law Firms listing for excellence in franchise law for the seventh year in a row.
About Cheng Cohen, LLC:
Established in 2007, Cheng Cohen grew out of a simple credo: to provide uncompromising client service and sound, practical legal advice to franchise and distribution clients for a fair and reasonable fee. Today, the boutique law practice is recognized as one of the leading franchise firms in the country providing franchisors, licensors and manufacturers with the comprehensive business-oriented legal services, litigation support and development assistance needed to efficiently and effectively expand their brands around the world. In addition to its consistent first tier ranking for franchising by U.S. News – Best Lawyers listing of Best Law Firms, Cheng Cohen has also been recognized by Chambers & Partners USA as a leader in franchising for both client service and commercial awareness. Additional information about Cheng Cohen can be found at www.chengcohen.com .
Contact:
Julia Block
Jblock@fish-consulting.com
954-893-9150
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cheng-cohen-announces-new-partner-to-firm-300589063.html
SOURCE Cheng Cohen