NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Inverness Counsel, a New York-based SEC-registered investment advisor (RIA), is pleased to announce that Timothy M. Ghriskey has joined the institutional team as Chief Investment Strategist. "We are excited to add Tim to the Inverness team. His more than 30 years of experience in investment management will benefit our clients" - Philip S. Lawrence, President & CEO.
Tim Ghriskey has extensive experience in senior level positions of investment management. Prior to joining Inverness, Tim was a managing partner of The Solaris Group LLC, and Chief Investment Officer of Solaris Asset Management. Previously, he was Senior Vice President and Senior Portfolio Manager of The Dreyfus Corporation, and earlier was Associate Managing Partner and Co-Head of the New York office of Loomis Sayles and Company.
Tim has been a frequent guest on financial media networks, and is regularly Quote: d in financial publications.
Tim has a BA from Trinity College and a MBA from the Darden School at University of Virginia. He is a Chartered Financial Analyst® and Chartered Investment Counselor.
About Inverness Counsel
Founded in 1967, Inverness Counsel is a privately owned investment counsel firm registered with the SEC. The firm's headquarters are located in New York City. As investment counselors, Inverness provides continuous advice to each client to meet both their short-term and long-term goals. Inverness recognizes that each client is unique and has their own set of expectations. For some clients, success may be measured by investment returns. For others, success may mean preserving assets for future generations. In addition to working with high-net-worth individuals, families and trusts, Inverness has a long history of working with pension funds, endowments and foundations.
For more information, please call (212) 207-2111 or visit www.invernesscounsel.com or e-mail info@invernesscounsel.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/timothy-m-ghriskey-joins-inverness-counsel-llc-300580018.html
SOURCE Inverness Counsel, LLC