Richard Jereski, Former Senior Special Agent, Office of Export Enforcement, Joins DC Office
WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Guidepost Solutions , a global leader in compliance, investigations, and security consulting, expanded its Investigations practice with the addition of Richard P. Jereski , an accomplished and decorated trade compliance investigator with more than 20 years of experience. Jereski recently joined the firm’s Washington, D.C. office as a managing director.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005987/en/
Richard Jereski, Trade Compliance Investigator (Photo: Business Wire)
“Rich’s background as a successful investigator, coupled with his deep expertise on trade compliance and customs issues, will further position our international investigations and compliance team as an elite practice,” stated CEO of Guidepost Solutions, Julie Myers Wood . “Our clients will greatly benefit from his experience investigating complex regulatory matters.”
Jereski was a Senior Special Agent with the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security Office of Export Enforcement, where he investigated criminal and civil cases for violations of the International Economic Emergency Powers Act (IEEPA), Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and other sanctions. He managed the Voluntary Self Disclosures to assist the export community with accurate filings and ensure that their matters were adjudicated promptly and fairly. He is the only agent in the organization’s history to serve as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney.
Jereski also served as a Senior Special Agent with the Environmental Protection Agency Office of the Inspector General. He managed cases involving computer intrusions. Earlier, Jereski was a U.S. Customs Service, Office of Investigation Special Agent. His cases involved IEEPA, International Traffic in Arms Regulation, FCPA, OFAC sanctions, fraud, and money laundering.
Jereski is the recipient of several renowned awards, including: the Department of Commerce Bronze Medal for Superior Federal Service; U.S. Attorney Eastern District of Virginia Public Service Award; Department of Commerce Gold Medal for outstanding criminal investigation; and Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association Award for Investigative Excellence.
Jereski received a Juris Doctor degree from St. John’s University School of Law and a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Rochester. He has Top Secret security clearance and is a Certified Evidence Retrieval Specialist/Computer Forensics Expert. Jereski is admitted to the New York State Bar Association and the Federal District Court, Southern District of New York.
About Guidepost Solutions LLC
In a world where change is certain, experience is the best protection. Guidepost Solutions offers global investigations, compliance and monitoring, and security and technology consulting solutions for clients in a wide range of industries. Our expert team provides leadership and strategic guidance to address critical client needs across the globe. With headquarters in New York, Guidepost Solutions maintains offices in key markets including Boston; Chicago; Dallas; Honolulu; London; Los Angeles; Oakland; Palm Beach; Sacramento; San Francisco; Seattle; Singapore; and Washington, D.C.; and has resources across the globe. Experience guides us. Solutions define us. For more information, please visit www.guidepostsolutions.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005987/en/
Montieth & Company
Amanda Drain, 646-864-3263
adrain@montiethco.com
Source: Guidepost Solutions LLC