WACO, Texas, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- General manager of Aire Serv of Las Vegas Jeremy Anderson is passionate about heating and air conditioning, having led the company to clinching the title of Contractor of the Year by the Southern Nevada Air Conditioning Refrigeration Service Contractors Association (SNARSCA), and unanimously being elected as the 40 th president of the prestigious air conditioning and refrigeration association. Voted on by a nine-person board with the outgoing president having the final say, Aire Serv of Las Vegas, a Neighborly company , won on behalf of their high standards and ethics in the industry as well as their work with the state contractors boards and local municipalities. A prestigious honor, particularly in a community where temperatures fluctuate from sweltering highs to frigid lows.
"I'm proud to be a part of Aire Serv of Las Vegas, a business that takes pride in what we do and ensures the highest level of quality and care to each and every one of our customers," said Anderson. "It's this level of detail and commitment that is what uniquely sets us apart from the competition. Aire Serv and I are extremely humbled and honored to be named Contractor of the Year and president by SNARSCA, and we will work tirelessly to live up to that reputation."
Adding to their list of accolades for 2017, Aire Serv of Las Vegas was named Silver Award winner by the Best of Las Vegas for the first time in their 50-year history. The prestigious award is made even more authentic, as it is determined by the local community, with customers nominating and ultimately selecting the best-of-the-best in the greater valley area.
Never stopping at excellence in the workplace, Anderson is well known for his charitable contributions to the community. Having served on the SNARSCA board for the past five years, he was charged with chairing the organizations 39 th Annual Chilly Willy Golf Tournament in 2017, which raised a total of $5,000 to be donated to the Autism Coalition of Nevada. Through Anderson's separate work with the Young Contractors Forum, the organization was able to donate four HVAC systems in addition to the labor, materials and installation to the CARE Complex, a program dedicated to the elimination of homelessness in Downtown Las Vegas.
"Jeremy Anderson and his dedicated passion and work at Aire Serv of Las Vegas is a shining example of the type of service and customer care that only Aire Serv can provide," said Steve Truett, president of Aire Serv. "Not only has Anderson successfully brought awareness to those seeking heating and air conditioning needs throughout the valley, but he also recognizes the impact that our work can do to help those who are less fortunate, and at the end of the day, that is what it's all about."
Aire Serv offers premium residential and commercial services for every type of heating and cooling system. Home services, which include heating and air conditioner repair, replacement and maintenance, are charged by the job and not by the hour. In addition, Aire Serv conveniently offers 24-hour emergency heating and air conditioning repair and service to its residential and commercial customers. For more information about Aire Serv and its HVAC services, please visit AireServ.com .
About Aire Serv®:
Aire Serv®, a Neighborly company, is a global franchise organization providing installation, maintenance and repair of heating, ventilation, air conditioning and indoor air quality systems. Recognized by Entrepreneur magazine among its "Franchise 500", Aire Serv franchisees provide services to both residential and commercial customers from more than 200 locations worldwide. Established by Dwyer Group® in 1992, Aire Serv is part of Neighborly, a community of home service experts, leveraging Dwyer Group's nearly 2,500 professional home service experts across 13 brands in the U.S. and Canada with a unique direct service function that provides consumers assistance with nearly all aspects of their home care needs. Neighborly brands include: Aire Serv®, Five Star Painting®, Glass Doctor®, Portland Glass®, Molly Maid®, Mr. Appliance®, Mr. Electric®, Mr. Handyman®, Mr. Rooter®, Protect Painters®, Rainbow International®, Window Genie® and The Grounds Guys®. Additional information about Neighborly can be found at www.GetNeighborly.com . For more information about Aire Serv, visit www.aireserv.com and to learn about franchising opportunities with all Dwyer Group's Neighborly companies, visit www.leadingtheserviceindustry.com .
CONTACT : Courtney Whelan
Fish Consulting
954-893-9150
cwhelan@fish-consulting.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aire-serv-of-las-vegas-named-contractor-of-the-year-by-the-southern-nevada-air-conditioning-refrigeration-service-contractors-association-300579067.html
SOURCE Aire Serv