ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety is pleased to announce the election of William L. Windsor Jr. as chairman of its Board of Directors. Windsor is associate vice president, Office of Consumer Safety, Nationwide Insurance. He succeeds Floyd M. Yager, senior vice president and chief data officer, Allstate Insurance Group, who served as IIHS chairman during 2017 and will continue as a Board member.
"As a founding member company of the Institute, Nationwide is a staunch champion of its lifesaving work," Windsor says. "I am proud to serve as chairman in 2018 as my Board colleagues and I work with IIHS leadership to further the Institute's legacy of safer roads."
"Bill has represented Nationwide on the Institute's Board of Directors for many years, and we are happy to see him take the helm as we face new challenges in highway safety," says David Harkey, who became IIHS president in January. "I know the Institute will benefit from Bill's leadership and commitment to our mission."
The new chairman-elect is Angela Sparks, vice president and actuary, State Farm Insurance Companies. The new vice chairman is Hank Nayden, vice president and legislative counsel, GEICO Corporation.
Other IIHS Board members are:
Gabriel Carrillo, senior vice president, COUNTRY Financial
Charles M. Chamness, president and chief executive officer, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies
Dan Clapp, executive vice president and treasurer, Shelter Insurance Companies
Cody Cook, senior vice president – personal lines, Erie Insurance Group
Paul Franklin, senior vice president, worldwide underwriting manager for personal lines, CHUBB
Daniel Halsey, president of personal lines, Hanover Insurance Group
John Hardiman, director of public affairs, New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance Group
David Harkey, president, Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and Highway Loss Data Institute
Jeffrey Hay, vice president of personal lines product management, The Hartford
Douglas S. Joyce, president, Alfa Alliance Insurance Corporation
Richard Lonardo, vice president, MetLife Auto & Home
William Loucks, head of products – central zone, Farmers Insurance Group
Robert Lyon, president and chief executive officer, Rockingham Group
James MacPhee, executive vice president and chief operating officer, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
John McCaskill, senior vice president – property and casualty underwriting, American National
Stan McNaughton, chairman, president and chief executive officer, PEMCO Insurance
Ted Murphy, senior vice president of claims, Amica Mutual Insurance Company
Steve Oakley, senior vice president, product management and chief actuary, PURE Insurance
Jack Salzwedel, chairman, chief executive officer, and president, American Family Mutual Insurance Company
David A. Sampson, president and chief executive officer, Property Casualty Insurers Association of America
Bob Tart, senior executive, underwriting, North Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company
Randy Termeer, senior vice president, general manager, auto insurance, P&C Insurance group, USAA
James Whittle, associate general counsel and chief claims counsel, American Insurance Association
Andrew Woods, vice president, research and development, personal insurance, The Travelers Companies
John Xu, vice president, actuarial, CSAA Insurance Group
Scott Ziegler, business leader, Progressive Insurance
For more information, go to iihs.org
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) is an independent, nonprofit scientific and educational organization dedicated to reducing the losses — deaths, injuries and property damage — from motor vehicle crashes. IIHS is wholly supported by auto insurers.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nationwides-windsor-elected-iihs-chairman-300587055.html
SOURCE Insurance Institute for Highway Safety