LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Union Bank today announced that Bjorn Stehr has joined The Private Bank as a Director and Private Wealth Advisor. Based in Seattle, Washington, he reports to Lisa Roberts, Head of Private Wealth Management for Northern California and the Pacific Northwest.
In this role, Stehr is responsible for providing high net-worth individuals, families, and non-profit organizations with tailored solutions that address their specific financial goals. He will partner with Union Bank experts across: wealth planning, investments, risk management, trust and estate services, and banking to deliver the institution's full breadth of capabilities.
"Bjorn brings a fresh perspective and years of experience serving the Seattle area community," said Lisa Roberts. "He will provide clients with advisory services that take into account each individual's complete financial picture - including personal wealth, business holdings, legacy planning, and charitable giving."
"Our team of experts and Bjorn are well-positioned to help clients navigate the new U.S. tax code and recalibrate their wealth plans as we go into 2018," added Roberts.
Stehr joins The Private Bank with more than 15 years of financial services experience, which includes senior positions at U.S. Trust and J.F. Shea, Inc. in Seattle. He holds a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Oregon State University and an MBA from The Wharton School.
About The Private Bank
The Private Bank is an exclusive part of Union Bank dedicated to the financial needs of high net worth individuals, non-profit organizations, business owners, corporate executives and professional service firms. The Private Bank is built around teams of wealth management professionals who provide financial advice centered on each client's unique goals and dreams.
Wealth planning strategies have legal, tax, accounting and other implications. Prior to implementing any wealth planning strategy, clients should consult their legal, tax, accounting, and other advisers.
About MUFG Union Bank, N.A.
As of September 30, 2017, MUFG Union Bank, N.A. operated 361 branches, comprised primarily of retail banking branches in the West Coast states, along with commercial branches in Texas, Illinois, New York and Georgia, as well as 18 PurePoint Financial Centers and two international offices. We provide a wide spectrum of corporate, commercial and retail banking and wealth management solutions to meet the needs of customers. We also offer an extensive portfolio of value-added solutions for customers, including investment banking, personal and corporate trust, global custody, transaction banking, capital markets, and other services. With assets of $118.6 billion, as of September 30, 2017, MUFG Union Bank has strong capital reserves, credit ratings and capital ratios relative to peer banks. MUFG Union Bank is a proud member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (NYSE: MTU), one of the world's largest financial organizations with total assets of approximately ¥304.2 trillion (JPY) or $2.7 trillion (USD)¹, as of June 30, 2017. The corporate headquarters (principal executive office) for MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, which is the financial holding company and MUFG Union Bank, is in New York City. The main banking office of MUFG Union Bank is in San Francisco, California.
1 Exchange rate of 1 USD=¥112.0 (JPY) as of June 30, 2017
©2017 MUFG Union Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC.
Union Bank is a registered trademark and band name of MUFG Union Bank, N.A.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bjorn-stehr-joins-union-bank-in-seattle-as-a-private-wealth-advisor-300577174.html
SOURCE Union Bank