NEW YORK, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Aleutian Capital Group, a New York-based middle market investment bank is pleased to announce the following successful transactions. Their recent successes solidifies their expertise in the consumer products industry.
PetzLife Products, Inc. Acquired by Manna Pro Products, LLC
PetzLife Products, Inc. provides branded pet care products including oral care products, shampoos & conditioners and other hygiene products through distributors, its website, retail locations, and wholesale. PetzLife's customer base includes consumers and veterinarians. The company is headquartered in Spring Park, Minnesota.
Manna Pro Products, LLC is a Missouri-based manufacturer of high-quality animal nutrition and care products for a broad range of animals. Its largest group of products is associated with horses, but the company also produces feed for backyard poultry and goats, rabbits, cattle, pigs and companion animals. Manna Pro's product lines primarily serve the "lifestyle farmer" market – people who own acreage with farm animals, and operate their farms as a hobby rather than a business.
Ark Naturals Acquired by Azalea Capital, LLC
Ark was founded in 1996 by Jay and Susan Weiss and was an early pioneer in the natural pet health category. Ark markets a full line of remedy, health and lifestyle products for dogs and cats under the Ark Naturals and Gray Muzzle Brands. All products are manufactured in the USA in FDA OTC facilities and / or USDA APFIS facilities.
Azalea Capital partners with entrepreneurs, management teams, and family-owned companies with revenues of at least $10 million. They provide growth capital, operating expertise, and industry experience to significantly enhance the long-term value of their investments.
About Aleutian Capital Group
Aleutian Capital Group is a New York-based investment bank serving sellers and buyers of companies throughout North and South America, Asia and Europe. Aleutian provides particular expertise in the technology, consumer products, e-commerce, professional services, healthcare, transportation and industrial manufacturing industries. Services include merger and acquisition advisory, raising growth capital, valuations and recapitalizations. The firm also engages in direct principal investing. Please visit our website http://www.aleutiancapital.com/ for more information.
Contact:
Aleutian Capital Group
100 Wall Street, Suite 900
New York, NY 10005
+1 (212) 652-4000
info@aleutiancapital.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aleutian-capital-group-closes-two-recent-ma-transactions-in-the-pet-products-industry-300580753.html
SOURCE Aleutian Capital Group