CHARLOTTE, N.C., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Fabio Teti, Chairman of the Board of NASCENT Technology, is pleased to announce the appointment of Chris Kete to President and C.E.O. effective January 2, 2018.
Mr. Kete earned a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He started his professional career as a submarine warfare officer with the U.S. Navy. Upon completion of his military service, Mr. Kete held a series of progressive roles with Fortune 500 constituents Cummins Inc. and Meritor Inc. (formerly ArvinMeritor). In 2010, he transitioned to the small and mid-sized business community where he has held CEO, President, and board member roles with several manufacturing and service firms: The Horsburgh & Scott Company, Wastequip, US GreenFiber, and Griffin Gear.
"We're excited to have Chris join our team. Under his leadership, I'm certain that he'll build on NASCENT's momentum and reputation as the leading provider of technology to the transportation industry," said Michael Bratt, NASCENT's COO/CFO. "This is an exciting time in NASCENT's 21+ year history. With new, advanced technologies and solutions in the hopper and robust interest from clients in other markets and industries, NASCENT will face new challenges in the near future. Accordingly, we've been improving our level of sophistication across the enterprise and Chris is uniquely equipped to capitalize on the opportunities ahead."
"This is the right time to transition leadership as NASCENT embarks on its next phase of growth and development. Chris will get the support he needs to be successful," stated Fabio Teti, NASCENT co-founder and Chairman of the Board.
About NASCENT Technology, LLC.
NASCENT Technology, LLC. has been successfully delivering technology solutions to the Intermodal Transportation industry since 1996. As the pioneer of Automated Gate Systems (AGS), NASCENT has consistently led the way in new technology-based solutions, providing several innovations and industry firsts. Backed by unrivaled engineering, assembly, software development, QA and support organizations, NASCENT continues to draw on its vast industry experience and a keen focus on intermodal operations to provide its clients with unparalleled solutions.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nascent-technology-llc-announces-ceo-change-300576486.html
SOURCE NASCENT Technology, LLC.