RICHMOND, Calif., Jan. 26, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:EKSO), an industry leader in exoskeleton technology for medical and industrial use, today announced that its industrial division will now report solely to Thomas Looby, President and Chief Executive Officer. Concomitant with this news, the company also announced that co-founder Russ Angold, after 13 years with Ekso Bionics, has decided to step down. Mr. Angold will continue to work with the company in order to facilitate a smooth transition. His responsibilities will be merged with the already established engineering, EksoWorks and leadership teams.
“As a co-founder, Russ has made significant contributions to the business from conception to commercialization of our industry-changing technologies,” said Mr. Looby. “He has set the team up for long term success as we continue to innovate and drive adoption. We thank him for his dedication and wish him all the best in his future endeavors.”
“When starting the company in 2005, few people knew what exoskeletons were,” commented Mr. Angold. “We’ve come a long way - it’s not science fiction anymore - now people are embracing how Ekso’s technology can augment human capabilities. This is still only the beginning and while I am leaving to pursue other opportunities, I am confident the right team is in place to drive the business forward.”
About Ekso Bionics ®
Ekso Bionics ® is a leading developer of exoskeleton solutions that amplify human potential by supporting or enhancing strength, endurance and mobility across medical and industrial applications. Founded in 2005, the company continues to build upon its unparalleled expertise to design some of the most cutting-edge, innovative wearable robots available on the market. Ekso Bionics is the only exoskeleton company to offer technologies that range from helping those with paralysis to stand up and walk, to enhancing human capabilities on job sites across the globe. The company is headquartered in the Bay Area and is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol EKSO. For more information, visit: www.eksobionics.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans or objectives relating to the design, development and commercialization of human exoskeletons, (ii) estimates or projection of financial results, financial condition, capital expenditures, capital structure or other financial items, (iii) the Company's future financial performance and (iv) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), (ii) or (iii) above. Such forward-looking statements are not meant to predict or guarantee actual results, performance, events or circumstances and may not be realized because they are based upon the Company's current projections, plans, objectives, beliefs, expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and other influences, many of which the Company has no control over. Actual results and the timing of certain events and circumstances may differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties. Factors that may influence or contribute to the inaccuracy of the forward-looking statements or cause actual results to differ materially from expected or desired results may include, without limitation, changes resulting from the Company’s finalization of its financial statements for and as of the period and year ended December 31, 2017, information or new changes in facts or circumstances that may occur prior to the filing of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K that are required to be included therein, the Company's inability to obtain adequate financing to fund the Company's operations and necessary to develop or enhance our technology, the significant length of time and resources associated with the development of the Company's products, the Company's failure to achieve broad market acceptance of the Company's products, the failure of our sales and marketing organization or partners to market our products effectively, adverse results in future clinical studies of the Company's medical device products, the failure to obtain or maintain patent protection for the Company's technology, failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market the Company's medical devices, lack of product diversification, existing or increased competition, and the Company's failure to implement the Company's business plans or strategies. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in the Company's filings with the SEC. To learn more about Ekso Bionics please visit us at www.eksobionics.com . The Company does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements.
Media Contact:
Carrie Yamond
917-371-2320
cyamond@lazarpartners.com
Investor Contact:
Matthew Ventimiglia
212-599-1265
investors@eksobionics.com
Source:Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc.