HEALDSBURG, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Dry Creek Vineyard announces new hires in the creation of its dedicated sales team to strengthen the company's vision, strategy and focus in the wholesale channel. This bold step is led by Dry Creek Vineyard President Kim Stare Wallace and Director of Sales John Doxon.
"We are delighted to welcome a number of talented new members to our winery family," said Stare Wallace. "In a world of increasing consolidation, I am proud that Dry Creek Vineyard has remained one of the last truly private, family owned, iconic wineries consistently producing 90-plus point wines."
The new hires include Thomas Bailey, National Accounts Director, Rocio Gonzalez, Regional Sales Director - South, Matt McCormack, Regional Sales Director – Midwest, and Kurt Spann, Regional Sales Director – Northeast. Joe Czesnakowicz has been promoted to Regional Sales Manager – West. Mike Eaker of Winery Associates will remain on board in the Mid-Atlantic.
Thomas Bailey brings 11 years of experience as a Regional Sales Manager representing brands primarily based in the Pacific Northwest, having recently been the National Accounts / South Region Sales Manager for Owen Roe Winery. Joe Czesnakowicz joined Dry Creek Vineyard in 2011 after a successful career in the restaurant industry. His previous position with the winery was the Key Account Specialist for California. Rocio Gonzalez has over 20 years of combined sales, service and management experience within the wholesale wine and food and beverage industries. Most recently she was the Central Regional Sales Manager for Long Meadow Ranch Wine Estates. Matt McCormack first joined Dry Creek Vineyard in 2006 as a Midwest Divisional Manager. He later transitioned to V2 Wine Group in 2011 as the Midwest Regional Manager, increasing his scope with the additional brands that were also represented. Kurt Spann joins the sales team with 20 years of sales experience spread between wineries, importers and distributors, and most recently represented Peju Province Winery.
Dry Creek Vineyard is Dry Creek Valley's flagship winery located in the heart of Sonoma County, California. Kim Stare Wallace, serves as President overseeing a successful family winery that includes 185 acres of sustainably farmed vineyards. Named one of the Top 100 wineries of 2015 by Wine & Spirits Magazine, the winery is also 100% Certified Sustainable. Dry Creek Vineyard proudly produces delicious Dry Chenin Blanc, Sauvignon Blanc, Chardonnay, Zinfandel, Cabernet Sauvignon and Meritage blends. To learn more, visit www.drycreekvineyard.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dry-creek-vineyard-announces-new-sales-team-300582229.html
SOURCE Dry Creek Vineyard