LOS ANGELES, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Pour Moi , the world's first climate centric skincare line, has tapped into the world of beauty editors to find its Beauty Director: Molly Nover-Baker . In addition to representing the brand as an expert, one of Nover-Baker's main roles is creating content for Pour Moi's new resident Beauty Forecast blog: a site dedicated to the relationship between climate and skincare. Until now, the connection between the two has been underreported—and it takes someone of Nover-Baker's caliber to adequately discuss it.
"Women are not only becoming more aware of our environment, but how their skin behaves in it. With Beauty Forecast , we'll translate the information that's out there and how it affects her and her lifestyle," explains Haslacher. "And who better to communicate with these women than Molly Nover-Baker—an expert with years of experience producing skincare stories in a compelling way. "
Nover-Baker agrees that skincare in general has been missing the cause and effect between climate and skin, which is much needed as skin functions change in different climates.
"I'm thrilled to be joining the team at Pour Moi as their Beauty Director. Their forward-thinking approach to skincare is exactly what is needed in the market right now," explains Nover-Baker. "There's no doubt that our climate is going through extreme changes, and Pour Moi is the only brand addressing how climate affects the health, vitality and aging of our skin. There are questions to be answered, and that is the role I'm taking on."
Naturally, Indie Beauty Expo was the perfect place to debut such a unique and groundbreaking blog. Founded by celebrity esthetician, Jillian Wright, and entrepreneur, Nader Naeymi-Rad, the Indie Beauty Expo was established to help the fast-growing category of indie brands connect with buyers, press and consumers.
WHERE TO FIND THE BLOG: BeautyForecast.com
WHERE TO BUY POUR MOI: NeimanMarcus.com , PourMoiSkincare.com ; Clean Beauty Mart
ABOUT THE POUR MOI BRAND
With scientific research validating that skin function changes in individual climates, each Pour Moi product delivers results with formulations that adapt the skin to optimize the particular climate. For more information, visit www.POURMOIBEAUTY.com .
ABOUT MOLLY NOVER-BAKER
Molly Nover-Baker is the CEO and founder of The Edit Collective, LLC., an agency that utilizes the industry's most influential former magazine beauty, health and lifestyle editors. Previously, Molly was the Beauty Director of Women's Health Magazine for seven years. In 2014, she was named one of Doctor Oz's "Miracle Workers"--one of only four experts to receive that prestigious award (and the only beauty expert). For more information, visit www.THEEDITCOLLECTIVE.com
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PRODUCT IMAGES AND SAMPLES:
TRACTENBERG & CO.
LINDSAY BOOS: 212.929.7979 / LBOOS@TRACTENBERG.COM
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pour-moi-skincare-introduces-the-ultimate-beauty-forecaster-at-the-indie-beauty-expo-in-los-angeles-january-24--25-2018-300587186.html
SOURCE Pour Moi Skincare