DENVER, RE/MAX, LLC has announced a new Vice President of Global Development. Shawna Gilbert , an eight-year veteran with the international real estate franchisor, will now lead the Global Development team charged with expanding the RE/MAX footprint worldwide.
"RE/MAX has a global presence unmatched by its competitors, and I'm excited to grow alongside the company during this new chapter in my career," said Gilbert, the global department's executive director before her promotion. "Nobody sells more real estate worldwide than RE/MAX and my team and I are proud to serve our global regions with a focus on moving the brand forward in more than 100 countries and territories worldwide."
Gilbert worked in the finance industry before joining the RE/MAX Global Development team in 2010 as a Region Development Consultant. During her tenure with the company, Gilbert has overseen operations in Canada and Asia Pacific. In addition, she was the catalyst behind major upgrades to the global technology suite, including improvements on global.remax.com and the development of a multilingual training and referral exchange platform.
"Shawna has vision, fresh ideas and a great team," said Geoff Lewis, RE/MAX President. "With her leadership, we're positioned to accomplish big things globally for years to come."
In 2017, RE/MAX was named the top global real estate franchise in Entrepreneur magazine's annual "2017 Top Global Franchises" list. The franchisor also reached nearly 35,000 agents outside of the U.S. and Canada. It added six new countries to its global footprint, including Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Latvia, Antigua, Taiwan and Ethiopia.
Nobody in the world sells more real estate than RE/MAX, as measured by residential transaction sides, and more than 115,000 agents worldwide are part of the RE/MAX network.
About the RE/MAX Network
RE/MAX was founded in 1973 by Dave and Gail Liniger, with an innovative, entrepreneurial culture affording its agents and franchisees the flexibility to operate their businesses with great independence. Over 115,000 agents provide RE/MAX a global reach of more than 100 countries and territories. Nobody sells more real estate than RE/MAX when measured by residential transaction sides. RE/MAX, LLC, one of the world's leading franchisors of real estate brokerage services, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RMCO, LLC, which is controlled and managed by RE/MAX Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:RMAX). With a passion for the communities in which its agents live and work, RE/MAX is proud to have raised more than $157 million for Children's Miracle Network Hospitals® and other charities. For more information about RE/MAX, to search home listings or find an agent in your community, please visit www.remax.com . For the latest news about RE/MAX, please visit www.remax.com/newsroom .
*As measured by residential transaction sides
 releases/global-leader-remax-has-new-global-leader-300588602.html
SOURCE RE/MAX, LLC