FRISCO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Skinny IT , a Frisco-based information technology (IT) service provider, today announced the acquisition of Installation & Service Technologies, Inc. (IST), a single-source solution provider for on-site service and repairs, to enhance the company’s ability to deliver on-site deployments for clients nationwide.
Previously, Skinny IT deployed its own on-site workers for high-volume orders. The acquisition of IST enhances Skinny IT’s ability to reach clients with tailored, on-site services, including surveys, project management, staging and kitting, installations, service contracts and depot repair.
“We emphasize the importance of superior, on-site service, ensuring clients that quality will be consistent with each interaction, and IST’s mission fits well within these high standards,” said Sam Darwish, CEO of Skinny IT. “IST is known for its complete life cycle coverage with innovative and responsive field support across multiple industries nationwide. We are confident this acquisition will be a smooth transition for clients and employees, and are looking forward to expanding into new verticals with the expertise IST brings.”
Acquiring IST into the Skinny IT brand advances the company’s vision to become a top nationwide IT service provider that improves business operations and overall productivity through the use of technology, creativity and flexibility. In addition, the combined entity will accelerate its specialty for main markets, including retail, restaurant, sports arenas and construction.
“IST has earned a distinct client rapport of continuous improvement and trustworthiness through the entirety of a project’s journey. We feel this acknowledgement, as well as our service capabilities, will only be enhanced as we transition into the Skinny IT brand and company,” said Jacob Horwitz, owner of IST. “Skinny IT has a clear vision of how clients and employees will benefit from a strong, combined workforce. We look forward to the company’s leadership and fresh initiatives to providing business IT solutions.”
About Skinny IT
Based in Frisco, Texas, Skinny IT delivers a wide range of customizable information technology solutions to more than 150 enterprises worldwide, helping them to optimize operational efficiencies and increase the bottom line. The company offers a wide array of IT services, including site assessments, installation solutions, field repairs and bilingual help desk offerings, for converged solutions providers, large-scale national retailers and value-added resellers across the country. For more information, visit www.skinnyit.com .
About Installation & Service Technologies, Inc.
Installation & Service Technologies (IST) is an IT deployment and service company headquartered in downtown Kansas City, and operating nationwide. From massive multi-site, multi-technology enterprise rollouts to elegant small business solutions, IST manages technology-based projects across their full lifecycle. Over the past twenty-five years, IST has developed an advanced matrix of service offerings backed by detailed process structures and comprehensive methodologies that ensure quality and professionalism. For more information, visit www.istservice.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005044/en/
for Skinny IT
Jennifer Powell, 972-499-6652
jennifer.powell@hck2.com
Source: Skinny IT