NEW YORK, Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- On the 12-year anniversary of Bob Woodruff’s ‘Alive Day,’ the Bob Woodruff Foundation is pleased to announce two new additions to its Leadership Council , Craig Newmark, philanthropist and founder of craigslist, and Christopher Perkins, managing director and global head of OTC Clearing at Citi.
Christopher Perkins, managing director and global head of OTC Clearing at Citi, has been named to the Bob Woodruff Foundation Leadership Council.
Craig Newmark, philanthropist and founder of craigslist, has been named to the Bob Woodruff Foundation Leadership Council.
The council is composed of leaders from diverse areas of influence, including defense, media, healthcare, philanthropy, business and government.
“Our Leadership Council is a select group of leaders who are passionate and driven to meet the needs of today’s veterans and their families,” said Anne Marie Dougherty , executive director of the Bob Woodruff Foundation. “I’ve already had the pleasure of partnering with Craig and Chris on several initiatives and look forward to working even more closely to broaden our resource base and gain inspirational insight to help steer larger objectives.”
Newmark is an Internet pioneer and philanthropist, widely known for founding craigslist. In 2016, he created Craig Newmark Philanthropies to promote investment in organizations that serve their communities and drive broad civic engagement at the grassroots level. Newmark serves on the board of directors of a range of nonprofits, including Blue Star Families, the Center for Public Integrity, the Consumers Union/Consumer Reports, Girls Who Code, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the Poynter Foundation, the Sunlight Foundation, VetsinTech, and the Women in Public Service Project.
“Americans owe a great deal to those who risk their lives to protect us, and their families make sacrifices right alongside them. I’m honored to join the Bob Woodruff Foundation Leadership Council and to support our service members and military families,” Newmark said.
Perkins , who served as a U.S. Marine Corps officer in Iraq, founded the Citi Military Veterans Networks and was instrumental in the formation of its successor Citi Salutes, a Citi initiative to serve the veterans community through employment, education, finance and outreach. Citi Salutes now includes more than 2,000 employees across 17 locations in the United States and United Kingdom. Perkins also served as co-founder of Veterans on Wall Street, an advocacy group and philanthropic partner of the Bob Woodruff Foundation. He also serves on the board of directors of Team Rubicon, a veteran-led disaster relief organization, and is a member of the NationSwell Council.
“The Bob Woodruff Foundation continues to have a strategic impact on the veterans community, and I’ve seen firsthand the leadership role it has taken to empower and support veterans and their families. It is an honor to be added to the Leadership Council,” Perkins said.
Beyond representing their own stakeholder groups in Leadership Council meetings, council members review and critique the foundation’s performance through regular progress reports.
To learn how you can support the Bob Woodruff Foundation, visit BobWoodruffFoundation.org
About the Bob Woodruff Foundation
The Bob Woodruff Foundation (BWF) was founded in 2006 after reporter Bob Woodruff was hit by a roadside bomb while covering the war in Iraq. Since then, the Bob Woodruff Foundation has led an enduring call to action for people to stand up for heroes and meet the emerging and long-term needs of today’s veterans. To date, BWF has invested more than $45 million to Find, Fund and Shape™ programs that have empowered impacted veterans, service members and their families. For more information, please visit bobwoodrufffoundation.org or follow us on Twitter at @Stand4Heroes .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/84840e65-199c-49bf-aac4-bc7d29878775
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6394e5bf-4c4b-4238-b253-ef11255f0621
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/46f276db-d231-4702-8133-7ea7223e1258
Sam Kille Bob Woodruff Foundation (646) 257-5490 sam.kille@bobwoodrufffoundation.org
Source:Bob Woodruff Foundation