ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Siemens Government Technologies, Inc. announced today IBM’s long-time federal business leader and senior executive, Anne K. Altman, as its new chairman.
A recognized leader in the federal marketplace, Altman retired from IBM as general manager of their federal and government industries in 2016 after 35 years with the company. She is a recipient of the prestigious Eagle Award, one of the highest honors issued to technology partners serving federal customers. An independent government analyst, policy expert and entrepreneur, Altman is a sought after speaker, and regular contributor to media outlets. She is a board member for a broad range of companies, including SPX FLOW, TechFlow, and MAXIMUS. Locally in the Washington, D.C. region she is also a member of the Northern Virginia Technology Council, National Symphony Orchestra, and, serves on the Dean’s Council for the George Mason School of Business.
“Anne brings a unique depth and understanding for the critical missions our government customers face every day, and, over the course of her distinguished career, has proved time and again why those in government and industry seek her out for expert advice,” said Barbara Humpton, president and CEO, Siemens Government Technologies.
Altman assumes her new responsibilities from outgoing board chair General Stanley McChrystal, U.S. Army, retired, who served as chairman since the organization’s inception in 2011. “We will always be indebted to Stan for his invaluable leadership and guidance over six years of incredible growth and maturation for our business,” Humpton added.
Joining Altman on the board of directors are external members Lieutenant General John Sylvester, U.S. Army, retired; and Bob Coutts, Lockheed Martin Executive Vice President, retired. Internal members include Ralf Christian, CEO, Energy Management Division of Siemens AG; Axel Meier, CFO for the Building Technologies Division of Siemens AG; and Barbara Humpton, president and CEO of Siemens Government Technologies, Inc.
Siemens Corporation is a U.S. subsidiary of Siemens AG, a global powerhouse focusing on the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization. One of the world’s largest producers of energy-efficient, resource-saving technologies, Siemens is a leading supplier of systems for power generation and transmission as well as medical diagnosis.
Siemens Government Technologies, Inc. is a federally-compliant U.S. organization structured to help the federal government address national imperatives in energy, infrastructure, automation and marine platforms. SGT is the leading integrator for Siemens’ innovative products, technologies and services to meet the needs of federal customers.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005297/en/
Contact for Journalists
Siemens Government Technologies, Inc.
Tom Greer, Director of Communications, 703-480-8902
thomas.greer@siemensgovt.com
Source: Siemens Government Technologies, Inc.