A Complete, Late-Model 1,000,000 Sq. Ft. Facility
CONCORD, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Branford Group, a global industrial auction company, will conduct a substantial online auction, in conjunction with Hilco Industrial & Joseph Finn Auctioneers, by order of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court Middle District of North Carolina (Winston-Salem), to sell the surplus assets of Alevo located at 2321 Concord Pkwy S Concord, NC.
Alevo is a global Energy Service Provider (ESP) and Battery Storage Manufacturer that brings its innovative GridBank energy storage technology to the electric grid.
This auction will open Tuesday, January 30 th at 8:00 AM (EST) and will begin to close Wednesday, January 31 st at 10:00 AM (EST).
This auction will feature:
Anode & Cathode Mixing & Coating Lines Cell Assembly Formation SS Tanks 500 Vidmars New Combilift & Forklifts (4) New Caterpillar Generators Massive Inventory & Finished Goods Facility & Support Equipment Much More
According to James Gardner, Senior Vice President and Partner at The Branford Group, “The online auction for Alevo represents an unprecedented, multi-million dollar offering of late model battery manufacturing lines, chemical processing equipment, facility support and a massive amount of inventory. The majority of the equipment was installed around 2016 and was never used in production, providing a real opportunity for any buyer.”
All interested parties can find the complete auction offering including dates, times, full featured items, specs, over 200 photos and bidding instructions here .
About: The Branford Group is a recognized leader in surplus industrial auctions, disposition, and valuation services throughout the world. Its experienced team of certified and accredited auctioneers and appraisers value and sell nearly all types of assets including business equipment, entire manufacturing plants, complete warehouses, real estate, and intellectual property (IP) from a broad range of industries. ( www.thebranfordgroup.com )
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006551/en/
The Branford Group
Jesse Gardner, 203-483-2220
Director of Marketing
jesse@thebranfordgroup.com
Source: The Branford Group