DALLAS, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ryan, a leading global tax services and software provider, has acquired PetroTax Energy Holdings, a leading complex property tax consulting firm representing several Fortune 500 energy companies. The firm is based in Austin, Texas and focuses primarily on the refining, chemical, biofuels and oil & gas upstream and midstream sectors.
This transaction adds a highly-specialized team of tax professionals with proven experience reducing property tax liabilities for many of the world's largest energy corporations. Trey Novosad, Greg Kort, and Sebastian Rodrigano will join Ryan's Complex Property Tax leadership team as Principals and ensure the highest level of quality and consistency across the Firm's existing client engagements.
"Ryan's strategic addition of PetroTax Energy Holdings adds substantial capabilities to our Complex Property Tax practice to meet increasing client demand in the chemical, refining and energy industries," said Mark LoRusso, Ryan Principal and Complex Property Tax Practice Leader. "Our Complex Property Tax practice has captured significant market share and now supports many of the largest petrochemical companies worldwide."
"PetroTax Energy Holdings marks another milestone in our strategy to build on our market leadership position as the largest firm in the world specializing exclusively in business tax services," said G. Brint Ryan, Chairman and CEO of Ryan. "Our clients will benefit tremendously from the unmatched complex property tax expertise of our newly combined team of tax professionals, and we look forward to delivering even higher levels of client service and results."
About Ryan
Ryan, an award-winning global tax services and software provider, is the largest firm in the world dedicated exclusively to business taxes. With global headquarters in Dallas, Texas, the Firm provides an integrated suite of federal, state, local, and international tax services on a multi-jurisdictional basis, including tax recovery, consulting, advocacy, compliance, and technology services. Ryan is a five-time recipient of the International Service Excellence Award from the Customer Service Institute of America (CSIA) for its commitment to world-class client service. Empowered by the dynamic myRyan work environment, which is widely recognized as the most innovative in the tax services industry, Ryan's multi-disciplinary team of more than 2,100 professionals and associates serves over 14,000 clients in more than 45 countries, including many of the world's most prominent Global 5000 companies. More information about Ryan can be found at ryan.com . "Ryan" and "Firm" refer to the global organizational network, and may refer to one or more of the member firms of Ryan International, each of which is a separate legal entity.
PRESS INFORMATION CONTACT:
Jim Aubele
SVP, Chief Marketing Officer
Ryan
972.934.0022 Ext. 10-1398
jim.aubele@ryan.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ryan-expands-complex-property-tax-practice-with-the-addition-of-petrotax-energy-holdings-forms-the-dominant-complex-property-tax-provider-to-fortune-500-energy-companies-300581427.html
SOURCE Ryan