PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) announced today that Mike Morey has been promoted to vice president of StanCorp Mortgage Investors.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005032/en/
Mike Morey, vice president of StanCorp Mortgage Investors. (Photo: Business Wire)
Morey has been active in the commercial real estate finance and investment industry for more than 25 years and first began his career at The Standard in 1997. He rejoined StanCorp Mortgage Investors in 2010 after more than five years as vice president at Intervest Mortgage Investment Company. At The Standard, Morey is responsible for the origination, underwriting, approval and closing of all commercial mortgages and for the management and maintenance of the external distribution platform.
“Mike has developed an extraordinarily loyal correspondent network and underwriting team for The Standard. In this new role he will coach others to continue to develop this network and underwriting team and take a more prominent role facing our external loan participants,” said Mark Fisher, vice president and managing director of StanCorp Mortgage Investors at The Standard.
Morey earned a Bachelor of Arts in political economy at the University of California at Berkeley.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, Inc., StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005032/en/
The Standard
Bob Speltz, Senior Director, Public Affairs
971-321-3162
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard