CAMPBELL, Calif., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Silicon Valley startup Tachyum Inc. today announced that Stanford University Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Christos Kozyrakis has joined Tachyum as a corporate advisor to provide guidance to the company as it transforms the landscape of intelligent data processing.
Kozyrakis leads the multi-scale architecture & system team (MAST), a Stanford research group that currently investigates resource-efficient cloud computing, energy-efficient compute and memory systems for emerging workloads, and scalable operating systems. He is best known for his technical contributions to vector processor architectures, transactional memory, hardware security, and most recently the use of machine-learning techniques in cloud management. Kozyrakis has worked in research or consulting roles for various companies, including Google and Intel. He is an IEEE fellow, an ACM fellow, and the recipient of distinctions such as the ACM SIGARCH Maurice Wilkes award and the NSF Career award.
"Tachyum shares my vision of making computer systems faster, greener and cheaper, and as such I feel there is a truly synergistic relationship between me and the company," said Kozyrakis. "I look forward to working with Tachyum in an advisory role as they unlock unprecedented performance, power efficiency and cost advantages to solve the most complex problems in big data analytics and deep learning for mobile and large-scale platforms."
Tachyum is unlocking the inherent performance of nanometer-size devices to deliver products that will transform the landscape of the $24 billion dollar hyperscale datacenter market, growing at 15% CAGR. Tachyum is set to deliver increases of more than 10X in processing performance, at fraction of the cost of competing products. Kozyrakis joins semiconductor pioneer Fred Weber on Tachyum's Advisory Board.
"Christos has a brilliant mind in his approach to computer systems architecture and having him as part of our advisory board to consult and discuss our approach will help us bring to market solutions to solve the processing performance plateau of nanometer-class chips," said Dr. Radoslav Danilak, Tachyum co-founder and CEO. "His impressive contributions to computer science through both his academic and industry work makes him a fantastic resource to leverage. We look forward to his contributions to our work in impacting a wide spectrum of markets and industries with our fundamentally new approach to data processing."
Follow Tachyum
https://twitter.com/tachyum
https://www.linkedin.com/company/tachyum
https://www.facebook.com/Tachyum/
About Tachyum
Named for the Greek "tachy," meaning speed, combined with "-um," indicating an element, Tachyum emerged from stealth mode in 2017 engineering disruptive intelligent information processing products. Tachyum's founders have a track record of delivering transformational products to market, by solving significant device physics challenges. And they are about to do it again. For more information visit: http://tachyum.com .
Contact:
Mark Smith
JPR Communications
818-798-1472
marks@jprcom.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/globally-renowned-computer-architect-christos-kozyrakis-joins-tachyum-as-corporate-advisor-300579595.html
SOURCE Tachyum