ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- SKUlocal , a national direct marketing company, is pleased to announce that Elyse Salpeter has joined the company as its new Sales Director, Healthcare Activation. She will offer consultative expertise in developing activation strategies for OTC and RX brands.
Salpeter is a senior-level sales executive, bringing more than 20 years of experience in marketing, sales and leadership to SKUlocal. Her direct marketing and targeting knowledge and experience are a great fit with SKUlocal.
Most recently, Salpeter was Sr. Director of Lifestyle Sales with a point-of-care company, and a Sr. Digital Sales Rep with Prevention. She also spent more than 10 years as a Sales Manager for USA Weekend Magazine, specializing in shopper marketing, lifestyle and pharmaceutical sales, including accounts such as Allergan, Glaxo, KFC, CMS and others.
Salpeter earned a bachelor's degree from Stony Brook University in New York. She lives on Long Island with her husband and 16-year-old twins.
About SKUlocal
Based in St. Petersburg, FL, SKUlocal is a national direct marketing company that offers targeted shopper solutions to identify and activate specific shopper segments. It provides marketers with strategic insights into how shoppers think while consulting on which tactics are optimal for driving desired behaviors. SKUlocal's combination of targeted direct mail, customized social integration and geo-specific digital activations -- coupled with powerful, precise targeting and consumer insights -- delivers measurable results for our valued partners in the consumer packaged goods (CPG), over-the-counter (OTC) and retail grocery marketplace. SKUlocal's client list includes Procter & Gamble, Kellogg's, Blue Bunny, L'Oreal, Bayer, Walgreens and HEB grocery stores. SKUlocal is owned by Platinum Equity, a global investment firm based in Los Angeles.
CONTACT:
Dave Williams
727-319-5443
david_williams@valpak.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/elyse-salpeter-joins-skulocals-sales-leadership-team-300578952.html
SOURCE SKUlocal