MIRAMAR, Fla., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lockton named Matt DiGregorio as a senior vice president in its South Florida operation. DiGregorio will advise clients in private equity, real estate and other industries on employee benefits programs. He will also be responsible for new business development. Lockton is the world's largest privately held independent insurance broker.
"Matt is respected for his focus on serving clients and adding value as a consultant," said Doug Hutcherson, CEO of Lockton's Southeast US operation. "Clients will appreciate his insight and guidance as we continue to grow our employee benefits business."
"Matt will be a great addition to the Lockton family and our South Florida team," added Hiram Marrero, regional executive for Lockton. "His credentials, experience and work ethic match the DNA of our Lockton culture.
DiGregorio is a graduate of Temple University's Risk Management and Insurance program and has 15 years of experience consulting with clients. Most recently, he was a principal with Mercer Health & Benefits based in Fort Lauderdale. He is also active in professional associations and the community. He is a member of the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM), the Human Resources Association of Palm Beach County (HRPBC) and is co-founder and board member of the South Florida Business Forum. He also founded and remains a principal at Tri-County Next Generation. DiGregorio serves as a board member of Financial Executives International and is chairman of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation's Taste of South Florida event.
DiGregorio will be based in Lockton's South Florida office at 3601 SW 160th Ave. in Miramar. The phone number is 954-883-2000.
About Lockton
Lockton is a global professional services firm with 6,500 Associates who advise clients on protecting their people, property and reputations. Lockton has grown to become the world's largest privately held, independent insurance broker by helping clients achieve their business objectives.
For nine consecutive years, Business Insurance magazine has recognized Lockton as a "Best Place to Work in Insurance." For the latest insights on employee benefits, check the Lockton Benefits blog .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/digregorio-will-join-lockton-as-senior-vice-president-in-florida-300584028.html
SOURCE Lockton