DES MOINES, Iowa and ATLANTA, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Meredith Corporation ( NYSE: MDP; www.meredith.com ) announced today that Lyle Banks has been named Vice President and General Manager of WGCL and WPCH, its television station duopoly in Atlanta, effective immediately.
"Lyle is a proven leader who has achieved tremendous success in both news and sales," said Meredith Local Media Group President Paul Karpowicz. "Lyle is a strategic thinker who isn't afraid to take chances, and we are looking forward to great things at CBS46 and Peachtree TV under his leadership. He understands what it takes to win."
Banks has a track record of growing revenue and ratings. As President and General Manager at both WMAQ-TV in Chicago and WAVY-TV in Norfolk, VA, he guided each station to the No. 1 spot in ratings, profit and advertising share in its respective market.
Banks is also a digital innovator, including launching a mobile application for global video newsgathering and developing strategies for increasing digital ad sales.
In addition to his roles at WMAQ-TV and WAVY-TV, Banks held senior positions at KXAS-TV in Dallas and KXAN-TV in Austin, TX. Additionally, he served as President and CEO of Banks Broadcasting, Inc., a joint venture with Lin Media and private equity partners to create more minority-owned-and-operated television stations.
Banks earned a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Carleton College in Northfield, MN. He is also a graduate of the General Electric Executive Development Course (EDC).
About Meredith Corporation
Meredith Corporation (NYSE: MDP; www.meredith.com ) has been committed to service journalism for 115 years. Today, Meredith uses multiple distribution platforms – including broadcast television, print and digital – to provide consumers with content they desire and to deliver the messages of its advertising partners.
Meredith's Local Media Group includes 17 television stations reaching 11 percent of U.S. households. Meredith's portfolio is concentrated in large, fast-growing markets, with seven stations in the nation's Top 25 and 13 in Top 50 markets. Meredith's stations produce approximately 700 hours of local news and entertainment content each week, and operate leading local digital destinations.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/meredith-names-lyle-banks-vice-president--general-manager-of-wgcl--wpch-television-stations-in-atlanta-300580048.html
SOURCE Meredith Corporation