SAN DIEGO, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- RG/2 Claims Administration LLC, a national boutique class action administration firm, announced the recent addition of Dominique Fite, JD as Vice President of Business Development and Client Relations. Fite brings to RG/2 Claims over a decade of experience in the legal industry and will focus on client relations initiatives including the development and retention of legal claims and class action administration matters with existing as well as prospective clients to fulfill RG/2 Claims' strategic direction.
"We are thrilled that Dominique has joined our team," said Michael A. Gillen, President and Co-Founder of RG/2 Claims Administration. "We are especially excited to add Dominique to our management team to further strengthen our class action claims administration practice in the areas of ERISA, consumer and securities cases, particularly in California."
"I am very excited to join RG/2 Claims," said Fite, "such a nimble team that provides exceptional personal service at all levels, including senior leadership, and simple, cost-effective solutions. I look forward to bringing my years of class action administration experience and expertise to an exciting and flourishing company that puts the client first."
Prior to joining RG/2 Claims, Fite most recently served as a director of client relations and development for one of the largest class action settlement administrators where she was responsible for the development and retention of numerous complex class action settlements. As both a former class action and business development attorney at one of the nation's leading plaintiff class action firms, she focused her practice on ERISA and Consumer Protection actions as well as securities litigation. Fite earned her J.D. from American University, Washington College of Law and her B.A., magna cum laude, from New York University.
About RG/2 Claims Administration
Whether engaged as a court-appointed settlement administrator, claims agent or disbursing agent, RG/2 Claims Administration LLC offers a complete range of claims, settlement administration and investment management services. Our principals combine experience with cutting-edge proprietary technology to make RG/2 unique in the field of claims administration.
There is a depth and breadth of knowledge to be found among our team of class action attorneys, certified public accountants, management and communications professionals, with decades of experience handling complex claims from inception through final distributions. It is this background, along with our bench strength, versatility, cutting-edge technology, innovative ideas, personal attention, custom solutions and competitive fees, which sets us apart from other claim administrators.
SOURCE: Melissa Baldwin, RG/2 Claims Administration LLC, 30 South 17 th Street, Suite 400, Philadelphia, PA 19103, Telephone: 1-215-979-1611, Facsimile 1-215-979-1695, mbaldwin@rg2claims.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rg2-claims-administration-llc-hires-to-increase-west-coast-presence-due-to-continued-growth-300587883.html
SOURCE RG/2 Claims Administration LLC