ST. LOUIS, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Contegix, a leading cloud application services provider, hired Chuck Cioffi as the company's new chief financial officer. In his new position, Cioffi is responsible for managing the financial operations of Contegix, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, process improvement, treasury and tax functions for the company.
Cioffi joins Contegix from Bambeco, a venture growth-backed omnichannel retailer and wholesaler of sustainable home furnishings, where he served as COO and CFO. During his time at Bambeco, Cioffi led several critical initiatives, including restructuring the company's retail division while driving growth in new markets and channels.
"Chuck brings extensive leadership experience and skills during a pivotal time at Contegix," said David Turner CEO of Contegix. "As we look to drive process improvement and manage growth, Chuck's insight, expertise and energetic personality will be a great addition to our team."
Prior to joining Bambeco, Cioffi served in several C-level roles at multiple entrepreneurial and venture and private equity-backed companies where he was tasked with improving financial performance and customer service while driving shareholder value.
As COO and CFO of The Robert Allen Group, Inc., a private equity-backed leading designer and marketer of premium branded fabrics, he led the execution to transform the company to profitability for the first time in 10 years.
Cioffi also served as general manager of Home Decorators Collection, when it was owned by The Home Depot. Before that he was CFO of Knights Direct, whose brands included Home Decorators Collection and Soft Surroundings. While at Knights Direct, he led a turnaround of the company which resulted in those brands growing significantly in sales and profit.
He spent the first 12 years of his career as a CPA at Ernst & Young, culminating with a position as a senior manager within the entrepreneurial audit practice. He graduated from Saint Louis University with a Bachelor of Science in business administration.
About Contegix
Contegix® provides application management serving the DevOps community as well as a suite of cloud and managed services to enterprise customers. Contegix is the global leader in Atlassian hosting and has extensive capabilities with other ALM tools like GitHub, and CMS tools such as Drupal, Magento and WordPress. As a FedRAMP-authorized service provider, Contegix offers federal agencies secure cloud storage and solutions. Contegix operates 10 state-of-the-art data centers located across the United States, Canada and Europe. To learn more, visit www.contegix.com .
Contegix is backed by Strattam Capital, a private equity firm that takes an innovative and focused approach to investing in high-potential companies within the business information technology market. To learn more, visit www.strattam.com .
Media Contact:
Patrick Barry, Byrne PR
314-540-3865
Patrick@ByrnePR.net
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/contegix-hires-new-chief-financial-officer-300586772.html
SOURCE Contegix