BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Regions Insurance , an affiliate of Regions Bank, announced today that Mike Breedlove has been named Executive Vice President of Property & Casualty Operations. Breedlove will be responsible for leading the company’s property & casualty strategy across the country through a growing network of offices throughout the Southeast, Texas and Indiana.
Breedlove currently serves as Regional Executive for the Southeast Region of Regions Insurance and will continue in that capacity. The Southeast Region includes offices in Georgia, South Carolina, Florida, Arkansas and Texas.
Rick Ulmer, President and CEO of Regions Insurance Group, Inc., commented, “I am confident Mike has the skills, relationships and tenacity to lead this critically important effort for Regions Insurance Group. Our P&C producers need to be supported with a clear strategy, targeted resources and focused revenue generating opportunities all while aligning with our strategic carrier partners.”
Prior to joining Regions Insurance in 2012, Breedlove was affiliated with WS Pharr & Co. for more than 20 years, including five years as President and COO. He is a graduate of Concordia University in Chicago.
Regions Insurance serves customers across the country through a growing network of offices throughout the Southeast, Texas and Indiana. In addition to business insurance and individual insurance options, Regions Insurance also provides employee benefits services and captive insurance solutions.
About Regions Insurance
Regions Insurance, an affiliate of Regions Bank, is ranked among the top 35 U.S. insurance brokers. In 2016, Regions Insurance was recognized among the top 10 fastest growing large-group employee benefit brokerages in the U.S. with $10 million to $50 million in large-group revenue, as presented by Employee Benefits Adviser in partnership with business intelligence data analytics firm miEdge. Regions Insurance offers comprehensive insurance solutions and risk management services for businesses and individuals through more than 600 insurance professionals. Additional information about Regions Insurance and its products and services can be found at www.regionsinsurance.com .
About Regions Financial Corporation
Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF), with $123 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation’s largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. Regions serves customers across the South, Midwest and Texas, and through its subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates approximately 1,500 banking offices and 1,900 ATMs. Additional information about Regions and its full line of products and services can be found at www.regions.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005158/en/
Regions Financial Corporation
Evelyn Mitchell, 205-264-4551
www.regionsbanknews.com
Regions News on Twitter: @RegionsNews
Source: Regions Financial Corporation