THE WOODLANDS, Texas, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Talen Energy Supply, LLC, today announced the appointment of Yvonne L. Fletcher as Managing Director - Finance and Head of Investor Relations. Ms. Fletcher joins Talen Energy from Fidelity Investments, a leading asset management firm, and will report to Mr. Alex Hernandez, the Company's Chief Financial Officer.
"Yvonne joins Talen at an exciting time for the firm, as we continue driving the execution of our Talen 2.0 operating plan and strategy," said Hernandez. "Yvonne's extensive experience in financial asset management, portfolio construction, and investment research will further enhance the depth of our communication and relationship with Talen Energy's investors."
Prior to joining Talen, Ms. Fletcher spent over 13 years focused on energy investment analysis in both buy and sell side roles, including her most recent role as an equity research analyst at Fidelity Investments. Prior to joining Fidelity, Ms. Fletcher held positions at ClearBridge Investments, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. and Credit Suisse. Ms. Fletcher began her career in the corporate sector as a financial analyst in corporate planning and investor relations. Ms. Fletcher holds a bachelor's degree in finance and economics and a master's in business administration degree from Tulane University.
About Talen Energy
Talen Energy is one of the largest competitive energy and power generation companies in North America. The Company owns or controls 16,000 megawatts of generating capacity in well-developed, structured wholesale power markets, principally in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Southwest regions of the United States. For more information, visit http://talenenergy.investorroom.com/index.php
Investor Contact
Yvonne Fletcher
Managing Director, Investor Relations
281-203-5366
yvonne.fletcher@talenenergy.com
Media Contact
Todd L. Martin
Manager, Media Relations
570-542-2881
todd.martin@talenenergy.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/talen-energy-appoints-yvonne-l-fletcher-from-fidelity-investments-as-head-of-investor-relations-300582791.html
SOURCE Talen Energy Supply, LLC