BOSTON, Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Paratek Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:PRTK), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative therapies based upon its expertise in novel tetracycline chemistry, today announced that it has commenced a registered underwritten public offering of $50.0 million of its shares of common stock. In addition, Paratek has granted the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $7.5 million of its shares of common stock. All of the shares to be sold in the offering are to be sold by Paratek.
BTIG, LLC is acting as sole book-running manager for the offering.
A shelf registration statement on Form S-3 relating to the public offering of the shares of common stock described above was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on October 29, 2015. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in the registration statement and related preliminary prospectus supplement that Paratek will file with the SEC for more complete information about Paratek and this offering. An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to the offering will be available on the website of the SEC at www.sec.gov . Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement, when available, and the accompanying prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained by contacting BTIG, LLC, at 825 Third Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10022, or by telephone at (212) 593-7555 or by e-mail at equitycapitalmarkets@btig.com .
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
About Paratek Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Paratek Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative therapeutics based upon tetracycline chemistry. Paratek has used its expertise in biology and tetracycline chemistry to create chemically diverse and biologically distinct small molecules derived from the minocycline core structure. Paratek’s two lead product candidates are the antibacterials, omadacycline and sarecycline.
CONTACTS:
Media Relations: Investor Relations: Michael Lampe Hans Vitzthum (484) 575-5040 LifeSci Advisors, LLC. michael@scientpr.com 212-915-2568
Source:Paratek Pharmaceuticals