Proven digital advertising sales leader to drive next phase of growth for emerging consumer attention marketplace
TAMPA, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Dabbl , the marketplace transforming the way brands and consumers engage with one another, today announced the expansion of its leadership team with the appointment of Calton Chan to the role of chief revenue officer (CRO). Chan is a seasoned advertising sales executive with more than 20 years of sales management and operations experience specializing in online advertising, marketing, software and technology. He has previously held CRO positions at AdYapper and Rocket Fuel, Inc.
“Calton brings an incredible depth of knowledge and experience to our team,” said Susan O’Neal, CEO and co-founder, Dabbl. “His extensive background in digital advertising gives him a unique understanding of the dynamics currently reshaping the industry, and he sees an opportunity for Dabbl to bridge the gap between quality consumer engagement and full campaign transparency that has eluded marketers.”
At Dabbl, Chan will be responsible for driving company-wide revenue, client services, and scaling Dabbl’s sales team, as more users and brands seek an alternative to interruptive, impressions-based advertising models. He will also serve on Dabbl’s senior leadership team, reporting to Dabbl’s CEO, Susan O’Neal.
Prior to joining Dabbl, Chan served as chief revenue office at AdYapper, where he oversaw global revenue, account management and client services for the company that built the industry’s first programmatic scoring tool to shift control of campaign performance back into the hands of media buyers. As CRO and founding revenue strategist at Rocket Fuel, Chan was instrumental in leading the company’s Initial Public Offering, and building the sales and support organizations from the ground up. Chan is a graduate of the University of Colorado at Boulder.
Since launching in August, Dabbl brand partners have received more than ten million quality consumer engagements, with each brand campaign enjoying an average 23 seconds of active consumer attention.
Dabbl is available now through the Apple App Store and Google Play . For more information visit www.getdabbl.com .
About Dabbl
Dabbl makes it easy for everyday people to actively participate in the $600 billion market for their attention. Through Dabbl-powered digital properties, real consumers enjoy meaningful interactive experiences with brands who value their time and engagement. Dabbl’s self-service business applications empower marketers to invest in direct, transparent and authentic consumer relationships. Dabbl is backed by Almaz Capital, which lead the company’s Series A. For more information visit www.getdabbl.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005186/en/
for Dabbl
Annie Keller, 312-228-6924
anniek@accesstheagency.com
Source: Dabbl