San Diego, CA, Brain Corp (“Brain”), an A.I. company specializing in the development of self-driving technology for robots, today announced that Christian Cornelius-Knudsen has joined the company’s management team as Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Services. Cornelius-Knudsen will be responsible for Brain’s robotics technology commercialization, market development and expansion, as well as OEM manufacturing, supplier and customer partnerships.
A visionary leader with an impressive record of transforming domestic and global manufacturing and service businesses, Cornelius-Knudsen brings more than 25 years of experience leading organizations through aggressive organic growth, acquisitions, consolidations, sourcing initiatives and technology development. Cornelius-Knudsen was previously engaged with Brain lending his strategic counsel to transition the company from a contract software technology provider to a global industry leader in artificial intelligence, machine learning and indoor and outdoor navigation for robotics.
“Working with Christian has been instrumental to the evolution of our organization and its technology platform, BrainOS,” said Brain Corp’s CEO, Dr. Eugene Izhikevich. “He is known for his unwavering commitment to excellence in developing people, strategy and businesses leading to growth and international expansion. As a well-established and respected leader in the commercial cleaning industry, I am extremely pleased to welcome Christian to our management team.”
During the past four years, Cornelius-Knudsen has led the C-K Group which has been focused on transforming emerging and established businesses. Prior to founding the C-K Group, Cornelius-Knudsen served as President and CEO of Nilfisk-Advance, Americas for 13 years. He led the company’s successful turnaround to regain its position as one of the industry leaders in design, manufacture and marketing of professional cleaning equipment.
“I have known Christian for the past 15 years,” commented John Barrett, Executive Director, ISSA. “Christian is an outstanding addition to the Brain team as he brings adeep blend of leading growth strategies, executing business expansions, and driving efficient market development and strategic customer relationships.”
Brain recently announced a $114 million Series C funding round led by the SoftBankVision Fund. The investment will be used to further develop A.I. technology and create brains for multiple types of commercial and consumer robots.
Brain Operating System
(BrainOS) BrainOS® is the foundation of Brain Corp’s platform technology. It is a proprietary operating system that integrates with off-the- shelf hardware and sensors to provide acost-effective “brain” for robots. It plays the same role as Android OS for smartphones, but also includes computer vision and A.I. libraries that provide advanced self-driving capabilities for cluttered and dynamic indoor and outdoor environments.
About Brain Corp
Brain Corp is a San Diego-based A.I. company that partners with manufacturers of commercial equipment and consumer electronics, to convert their manually-operated products into autonomous robots. Brain Corp’s technology represents the nextgeneration of artificial brains for robots. Brain Corporation is funded by the SoftBank Vision Fund and Qualcomm Ventures. For more information or to access videos of its robots, please visit www.braincorp.com .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/273cddd4-44ea-4ef7-b226-eb3b04ae9522
Karen Fisher Brain Corp marketing@braincorporation.com
Source:Brain Corp