CHICAGO, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Blueprint Healthcare Real Estate Advisors (Blueprint) today announced that Salvatore (Torey) Riso will join as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2018.
Riso, a real estate investment veteran with 25 years' experience, including over ten years in the seniors housing and care industry, was most recently President and CEO of Care Investment Trust LLC (Care). He will be the first to serve as President and CEO for Blueprint.
"We are thrilled to have Torey step into this pivotal role," said Ben Firestone, Senior Managing Director, who, with partners Christopher Hyldahl and Jacob Gehl, founded the company in 2013. "Torey brings a great deal of knowledge and expertise and has always been a champion of the Blueprint culture. His vision, strategy, and execution track record is exactly what we need as we take this transformational step forward in our firm's development," Firestone added.
Riso was part of the team that founded Care Investment Trust in 2007, and has served as its President and CEO since 2009. He was the architect of a strategy that focused on investment partnerships with small- and medium-sized operators in the seniors housing and care sector. Under Riso's leadership, Care survived The Great Recession through a strategic sale from CIT Group to Tiptree Inc. In November 2017, Care announced its acquisition by Invesque Inc. for $425 million. At the time of the announcement, Care had investments in 42 communities within 11 states, with eight best-in-class regional operators.
"I am honored to lead Blueprint into its next phase of growth," said Riso. "Ben, Chris, and Jake had a unique vision when they founded Blueprint a few short years ago, and have experienced unprecedented success in such a short time. The entire team is dedicated to maximizing outcomes for its clients through insightful and accurate analytics, zealous advocacy, and a firm commitment to integrity and respect for clients and counterparties alike. I'm excited to help Blueprint continue its path to being the industry leader in this sector."
Riso is a member of the Executive Board of the American Senior Housing Association (ASHA) and is Co-Chair of the Spring Investment Forum Planning Committee for the National Investment Center for Seniors Housing & Care (NIC). He holds a bachelor's degree from UCLA and J.D. from the Loyola Law School of Los Angeles.
About Blueprint
Blueprint Healthcare Real Estate Advisors is a leading advisory firm exclusively focused on seniors housing and healthcare real estate. Since inception, Blueprint has structured over 145 transactions in the space. The company's website is www.blueprintHCRE.com .
For further information:
Media Contact:
Michelle Marzullo
(312) 300-4185
mmarzullo@blueprintHCRE.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blueprint-healthcare-real-estate-advisors-names-torey-riso-president--chief-executive-officer-300589308.html
SOURCE Blueprint Healthcare Real Estate Advisors