SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Build Group, Inc. today announced the hiring of Steve Howard as Vice President of Business Development. In his new role, Howard will be responsible for managing customer relationships and driving new business initiatives for the San Francisco-based general contracting firm, which in three consecutive years has been named one of the Bay Area's Fastest Growing Private Companies as well as one of its Best Places to Work.
"We're very grateful to have recruited a proven business leader like Steve to a role that will be so critical to Build Group's continued successful growth," said Build Group CEO Ross Edwards. "Steve joins the Build Group family from Intel Corporation, where he demonstrated a long track record of driving and managing phenomenal growth in a variety of sales and marketing management roles."
Steve Howard's distinguished 33-year career at Intel culminated in a leadership role as Northwest U.S. Regional Sales Manager in which his engagement with many of the fastest growing technology companies in Northern California and beyond drove $2 billion in annual revenue.
"I'm incredibly excited for the opportunity to join Build Group and continue my business development work for this exciting company with so many of the well-established and still-growing Northern California businesses I've worked with for years," Steve said. "Build Group is a dynamic company with a bright future, and I'm looking forward to being a part of its continued growth and success."
Steve holds a Master of Arts degree in Industrial Psychology and a Bachelor of Sciences degree in Economics from the University of the Pacific, where he graduated with High Honors. While at UOP, Steve was the Captain of the Division 1 NCAA basketball team. Steve is based in Silicon Valley with his wife, Eileen, and their three children.
About Build Group, Inc. Build Group is a general contractor focused on providing a high level of service to its clientele. With its in-depth understanding of clients' business needs and commitment to providing principal-level involvement on all projects, Build Group has grown consistently since its inception. The employee-owned company has been named a Largest Commercial Contractor in the Bay Area, a Healthiest Employer, a Fastest Growing Private Company, and a Best Place to Work in the Bay Area. As a preferred builder and trusted partner in every market it serves, its mission statement is: "WE BUILD: Values…People…Trust."
For more information, visit Build Group, Inc. on the web at http://www.buildgc.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/build-group-inc-names-steve-howard-as-vice-president-of-business-development-300586854.html
SOURCE Build Group, Inc.