SAN DIEGO, Dawn Brandenburg has joined the global leadership team at Nomad. She brings a strong record of accomplishments and regional APAC expertise to her new role with Nomad in its Hong Kong office.
Dawn has spent 22 years exceeding client expectations and building relationships throughout Asia in her prior positions, and will bring that same combination of professionalism and passion to Nomad's client base. With her work history encompassing high level roles with BGRS (Brookfield Global Relocation Services), Savills, JLL and Cushman & Wakefield, she has the perfect mix of global understanding of both real estate and relocation.
Previously, Dawn held positions on the WERC APAC committee, was a speaker at Terrapin Serviced Apartment Conference group, a guest Judge for Shanghai City Weekend Home & Office awards and a contributing member of the WERC China Think Tank. In addition, she was a part of The MIGroup global advisory committee and on the global appeals committee for BGRS. During her time at Savills, her China team boasted the largest market share for long term corporate housing and received a combination of 44 awards under her leadership.
"We are thrilled to add Dawn to our global team; her expertise in the APAC region, combined with her relocation industry experience, make her an ideal fit for Nomad," states Gavan James, President and CEO of Nomad.
The Forum for Expatriate Management (FEM) recently announced Nomad Temporary Housing, the premier global provider of temporary housing, as the 2017 Expatriate Management & Mobility Award winner for the EMEA region in the Corporate Housing Provider Category. Nomad also won in this category in May 2017 for the Americas region.
Employing a unique model of technology and personalized customer care that provides a bidding platform of more than 900 vetted partners worldwide, Nomad offers a single point of contact for clients. Nomad utilizes its vast array of partners to offer thousands of apartments and suite hotel rooms to clients in the locations they need, with the selection of choice they demand. Our top clients report Nomad's service delivery is a step above any other global serviced accommodation brand. For more information, please visit www.nomadtemphousing.com .
Heather James
Nomad Temporary Housing
619.313.4300
hjames@nomadtemphousing.com
www.nomadtemphousing.com
 with multimedia: releases/nomad-temporary-housing-names-dawn-brandenburg-as-director-apac-region-300583373.html
SOURCE Nomad Temporary Housing