 28 a.m. ET Share 
Pharma executives express doubt over proposal in face of government’s past failure to pay bills; barter spreads among populace for lack of currency Reuters Given the country’s opaque finances, it isn’t clear how much Venezuela holds in certified precious metals and stones. The Socialist government, led by Nicolas Maduro, shown here, unilaterally pulled out of the international Kimberley Process, which certifies the origins of diamonds, for eight years until it re-entered in 2016. Much of the country’s mining of diamonds and other valuable minerals is in the hands of wildcat miners. 
By Kejal Vyas 
CARACAS—With hospital shelves bare and the government stumped on how to settle $5 billion in arrears to pharmaceutical companies, cash-strapped Venezuela recently offered some foreign suppliers alternative compensation: diamonds, gold and coltan, the rare metal used to make cellphones and Playstations. 
The proposed exchange perplexed the pharma representatives, whose companies had no policies on accepting precious gems and metals as payment, according to three people familiar with the meeting last month where Venezuela’s health minister made the offer. 
While it isn’t clear if any of the firms accepted it, the proposal underscores how Venezuela’s economic collapse is forcing President Nicolás Maduro’s embattled administration to improvise to pay for goods as severe dollar shortages push the country toward a barter society. ‘Money was created so that we could avoid having to barter for basics. But we’ve fallen so far that we’re now going back in time.’ Caracas-based economist Omar Zambrano 
Bartering is also creeping into daily street transactions for staples, partly because the government is too broke to print enough currency. The so-called Strong Bolivar, which the government created in 2008 by lopping three zeros off its previous currency, lost 97% of its value in 2017 alone as the oil-rich country plunges further into hyperinflation. 
Health Minister Luis López, who calls himself a radical anti-imperialist on his official Twitter account, couldn’t be reached for comment. Calls to a ministry spokesman went unanswered. 
Using commodities as payment isn’t uncommon for large global companies trading in mining or oil, but is almost unheard of as a way to settle debts to other sectors like pharmaceuticals, according to Caracas-based economic consultant Orlando Ochoa.