Rachel Seward Will Develop Channels and Standards for MiTek to Communicate and Deeply Engage on a Global Scale
CHESTERFIELD, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- MiTek ® Industries, a Berkshire Hathaway company, today announced that Rachel Seward has joined MiTek as the Vice President of Enterprise Communications and Philanthropy. In this newly created role, Ms. Seward will develop clear channels, and standards for communicating internally and externally, with a special focus on helping convey the “One MiTek” story with clarity, passion, and consistency on a global scale.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006062/en/
Rachel Seward has joined MiTek as the Vice President of Enterprise Communications and Philanthropy. (Photo: Business Wire)
Ms. Seward will also develop a philosophy and strategic plan for community engagement and philanthropy, while aligning MiTek’s business strategy and its People First culture.
Ms. Seward comes to MiTek with more than a decade of experience in designing, implementing, and leading communications, community engagement and public relations for several prominent organizations in the Greater St. Louis area, including the Saint Louis Public Schools, Wells Fargo Advisors, and The Regional Business Council. Ms. Seward has a BA in Political Science from Boston University, and she is bilingual in English and Spanish.
“One of MiTek’s key goals is to take the company’s impact strategically and purposefully into the communities where we reside and serve,” said MiTek’s Chairman and CEO Mark Thom. “Rachel has the skill and drive to help us better align our business strategy and culture with our overall mission and impact on the world we live in, and we couldn’t be happier that she has agreed to join our growing team.”
About MiTek Industries
MiTek Industries is a diversified global supplier of software, engineered products, services, and equipment to the residential, commercial, and industrial, construction sectors. MiTek Industries’ passion for our associates’ well-being and for our customers’ success is the company’s hallmark. A Berkshire Hathaway company (NYSE: brk-a , NYSE: brk-b ) since 2001, the Company has operations in more than 40 countries on six continents. Learn more: www.Mii.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006062/en/
For MiTek
John D. Wagner, 919-796-9984
Jdwagner@WagnerPR.com
Source: MiTek Industries