ATLANTA, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- FIG Partners , one of the nation's premier investment banking and research firms specializing in community banks, today announced that Kevin Fitzsimmons has been named Deputy Director of Research.
Fitzsimmons has more than 22 years of financial services experience, with an emphasis on equity research. He will oversee FIG's research coverage of more than 125 community bank stocks across the nation. Fitzsimmons will report to Christopher Marinac , FIG's Director of Research.
Additional Research depth enables FIG to maintain thoughtful and timely research on the Banking industry and thriving companies across all sizes nationwide.
"Kevin Fitzsimmons is a highly experienced and accomplished equity research analyst," said FIG CEO Geoffrey Hodgson . "He is a terrific addition to our expanding world-class research team. Kevin shares FIG's passion to delivering quality solutions to investors and community banks."
Prior to FIG, Fitzsimmons was Managing Director, Equity Research at Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P. for more than 11 years. He also created a new research boutique in 2016 and 2017 with over 30 companies under coverage. Earlier in his career, Fitzsimmons was Vice President at Prudential Securities and Credit Suisse First Boston. He began his career as a bank examiner at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Fitzsimmons earned both an MBA and a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Notre Dame. He also served four years as a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy, achieving the rank of Lieutenant.
About FIG Partners
FIG Partners LLC is one of the nation's premier investment banking and research firms specializing in community banks. Headquartered in Atlanta, FIG has offices in Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, New Jersey and Raleigh, North Carolina. , call 404.601.7200 or visit www.figpartners.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fig-partners-names-kevin-fitzsimmons-deputy-director-of-research-300583731.html
SOURCE FIG Partners