SHARES Getty Images Residents wait in line to pay taxes at the Fairfax County Government Center December 28, 2017 in Fairfax, Virginia. 
Officials in New York, New Jersey, California, and Maryland are going to the mat against the White House, reworking their tax codes to ease residents' pain from new limits to federal deductions for state, local and property taxes. 
Starting this year, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , the recently enacted federal tax overhaul, caps payers' deductions on their property, state and local income taxes (SALT)  at $10,000. 
In 2015, the average New Yorker's SALT deduction was more than $22,000 . In New Jersey and California, those deductions were around $18,000, while Marylanders claimed an average deduction of nearly $13,000. 
Previously, there was no limit on deductions for these local levies. The change means many residents in these states — and many others — will now pay more to the federal government. (See chart below.) 
"We're attempting to come up with ways to negate and blunt the harsh and unfair Republican tax policy," said Kevin de León, the Democratic leader of the California State Senate. 
To combat the new SALT deduction cap, politicians are proposing some creative concepts. 
Some of the ideas include granting a charitable deduction — which remains uncapped — after filers pay property taxes. Another idea does away with income taxes and applies a statewide payroll tax to be paid for by employers — which is deductible to them. 
"The whole intent is to ensure that you get the benefit of the deduction you would otherwise lose," said Joseph Bankman, the Ralph M. Parsons Professor of Law and Business at Stanford Law School. 
The White House has expressed its disapproval. 
"I hope that the states are more focused on cutting their budgets and giving tax cuts to their people in their states than they are in trying to evade the law," said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin at a press briefing this month. "The whole intent is to ensure that you get the benefit of the deduction you would otherwise lose." -Joseph Bankman, Stanford Law School 
However, Robert Mujica, New York's budget director, said it's impossible for the state to not react. 
"What Washington did to New York was say 'We're going to basically change the laws entirely and upend your system, oh, and by the way, don't make any changes to adjust to it'," he said. 
Here's how three states are working to combat the new tax law. California Michael Tullberg | Getty Images California State Senate leader Kevin de Leon. 
In early January, California Senate leader de León introduced a bill that would allow residents to pay some of their state taxes to the California Excellence Fund, a state charity. In turn, taxpayers would be able to deduct the amount of their charitable contribution on their federal returns. 
So if, say, a San Francisco resident's SALT taxes were $15,000, they could pay the first $10,000 as normal, and then contribute the remaining $5,000 of their state tax bill to the California Excellence Fund as a charitable donation. That would then make their total SALT taxes deductible. "It means sitting down with an accountant in December instead of March." -Brian Galle, Georgetown University 
"It's pretty easy," said Brian Galle, a law professor at Georgetown University who specializes in taxation. "It follows a mechanism that many taxpayers have done every year." 
What might require adjustment is that people would have to figure out their taxes months earlier than they're used to. That's because people would need to know their state tax bill and make that charitable contribution before the end of the year to receive the benefit. 
"It means sitting down with an accountant in December instead of March," Galle said. 
Educating Californians about the system would be a major part of the plan, de Leon said. Maryland 
A similar concept is cooking in the Old Line State, where legislators announced they would release three tax bills as a response to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
The package of bills aims to address the loss of state and local tax deductions by allowing residents to make charitable contributions to public schools, counteracting the effect of the $10,000 limit on SALT deductions. 
Further, state legislators want to maintain personal exemptions on state tax returns. These exemptions have been dropped from the federal tax code. 
Legislators also want to decouple Maryland's estate tax system from the federal framework so that the state's estate tax exemption is around $5 million – as opposed to the new federal estate tax exemption of about $11 million per individual. New York Getty Images New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. 
Absent of any changes, the state estimates that New Yorkers would pay an additional $14 billion a year in taxes. 
Earlier this month, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo ordered the Department of Taxation and Finance to craft ways for the state to respond to the GOP tax bill. The department emerged with a slew of proposals to reshape New York's taxation. 
"All of them are designed to give back to New Yorkers what the federal government took away," Mujica said. 
The first proposal basically mirrors California's plan. Residents would contribute their SALT taxes beyond the $10,000 cap to a state charity, and therefore make their entire bill eligible for deduction. 
The other major proposal would shift income taxes to payroll taxes — or from employees who can no longer deduct taxes to employers who still can. 
Employers, facing a higher tax bill, would most likely reduce wages. But the state would give employees a wage credit, which would be deductible. "What Washington did to New York was say 'We're going to basically change the laws entirely and upend your system, oh, and by the way, don't make any changes to adjust to it'" -Robert Mujica, New York State Division of the Budget 
So if an employee makes $75,000 a year, and the employer lowers her salary to $65,000 because it's now paying a new payroll tax, the state would give the employee a wage credit for $10,000. The employee is back where she started (at $75,000) — but now she has her state taxes shielded from federal taxation. 
This proposal could reach more people than the charitable deduction, Galle said. 
"You might be benefiting all your constituents," he said. "Not just the ones who itemize." It might, however, require workers to accept an immediate pay cut. 
Mujica said these proposals are a top priority for the state. 
"We'd like to get legislation drafted in the next few weeks," he said. New Jersey