HANOVER, Md., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Adfinitas Health, the largest private hospitalist group in the Mid-Atlantic region, today announced its acquisition of a majority interest in Advanced Inpatient Medicine (AIM). Based in northeastern Pennsylvania, AIM is a regional private hospitalist group that serves four hospitals and several long-term acute care and skilled nursing facilities. The company and its nearly 40 employees will become part of Adfinitas Health, which currently partners with 14 hospitals and more than 40 post-acute facilities in Maryland, Virginia, and Michigan. Financial terms of the acquisition are not being disclosed.
Founded in 2006 by Louis O'Boyle, DO, AIM's business model focuses on quality and performance improvement while providing cost-effective services. Similar to Adfinitas Health, Dr. O'Boyle has focused his practice on two key objectives: high-quality, cost-effective patient care; and significant integration of nurse practitioners and physician assistants (commonly referred to collectively as Advanced Practice Providers, or APPs) into care teams. APPs practice at the top of their licenses under the supervision of a physician. Dr. O'Boyle and his team have succeeded in improving key quality metrics and driving cost savings over time, due in large part to the success of the clinically integrated staffing model also used by Adfinitas.
"We are very impressed with the caliber of the company and the staff that Dr. O'Boyle has assembled. AIM's providers are as devoted to patient-centered care as our own; they are hard-working and support one another as a team," said Eric Nass, President of Adfinitas Health. "That collaborative approach truly aligns with the core values that Adfinitas Health was founded on. Finding so much common ground with Dr. O'Boyle and the AIM team made this decision the right one for both entities. We're thrilled to be growing our footprint in northeastern Pennsylvania and look forward to bringing our capabilities and infrastructure to AIM's partner hospitals and building on their accomplishments."
"I am delighted that AIM is becoming part of Adfinitas Health – a company that firmly shares our values and approach to care," said Dr. O'Boyle. "We have synergies in many areas of the business, but the mindset around teamwork, quality, and building partnerships with clients is what makes me feel confident and excited about this deal. When I first met Drs. Davis and Mitchell, Adfinitas Health's co-founders, I quickly understood that we shared that philosophy, and I'm looking forward to what we'll be able to accomplish together in this market."
Dr. O'Boyle will remain as a minority owner of AIM.
About Adfinitas Health
Adfinitas Health is the trusted partner of more than 50 healthcare systems, hospitals, and post-acute care centers in the Mid-Atlantic region. Founded in 2007, Adfinitas Health is a physician-owned and managed company that provides high-quality, cost-effective integrated medical services across the full continuum of care. Our unique integrated staffing model, unwavering commitment to client satisfaction, and focus on improving outcomes, creates opportunities to transform patient care and drive value. For more information, please visit AdfinitasHealth.com.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/adfinitas-health-acquires-advanced-inpatient-medicine-300577867.html
SOURCE Adfinitas Health