Industry veteran brings 30-plus years of treasury leadership to Chatham Investment Advisors
KENNETT SQUARE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Chatham Financial, a global leader in debt and derivatives solutions, announced that Alain Tourikian has joined as Senior Advisor for Chatham Investment Advisors. In his new role, Tourikian will work in the company’s Financial Institutions (FI) business practice to grow Chatham Investment Advisors, a registered investment advisor that assists clients with investment portfolio management and treasury advisory.
“Alain brings extensive commercial banking experience with solid problem-solving skills,” said David Sweeney, managing director of Chatham Investment Advisors. “With over three decades of hands-on experience in the community banking space, he possesses an in-depth knowledge of the skills that CFOs at FIs need most, including portfolio management, fixed income markets, derivative products, wholesale and retail funding sources and risk management processes.”
Known as an innovator in the financial institution space, Tourikian has designed and pioneered several on- and off-balance sheet strategies to protect and enhance net interest margin. He has successfully established a framework and proactive roadmap that are used in a coordinated holistic strategy to manage interest rate risk, liquidity and market price volatility for any interest rate scenario.
“I’m excited to join the team of smart and dedicated professionals at Chatham who genuinely understand the needs of CFOs,” said Tourikian. “I believe that my experience working on the client side combined with Chatham’s deep expertise in the FI space will allow us to develop the most effective, tailored solutions for financial institutions.”
Prior to joining Chatham, Tourikian held treasury leadership positions for more than 30 years at One Valley Bank, Provident Financial Group, Inc., Integra Bank and First Financial Bank. He also teaches economics and finance courses at Northern Kentucky University.
About Chatham Financial
Chatham Financial is an independent financial risk management firm committed to serving clients so they can overcome common yet complex capital markets challenges. Chatham works with over 2,000 clients globally, providing advisory and technology solutions to Corporations, Financial Institutions, Private Equity and Real Estate companies. Since its founding in 1991, Chatham has hedged over $5 trillion notional, helping clients understand and use debt and derivatives as a critical piece of their financial strategy. Chatham is committed to driving trust and transparency in the capital markets. Learn more at www.chathamfinancial.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005231/en/
On behalf of Chatham Financial
Kelly Whalen, 857-301-9936
kwhalen@prosek.com
Source: Chatham Financial