FLANDERS, New Jersey, January 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
First Priority Emergency Vehicles, the emergency and specialty vehicle division of First Priority Global, today announced that Tony Testa has been named Director of Sales of its Conversion Division. Testa will lead all conversion sales out of the company's new Flanders facility and report directly to Alex Cherepakhov, CEO of First Priority Global.
"We are extremely excited to have Tony join our team," Cherepakhov said. "As we recently expanded into our new 30,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Flanders, it is the perfect time for someone with Tony's caliber to join us. He brings more than 40 years of expertise in the specialty vehicle industry and will help us serve our existing fleet customers as well as expand into new territories."
Testa added, "First Priority has a world class reputation in the Emergency and Specialty Vehicles sector and I'm excited to join such as strong and innovative team. The opportunity to strengthen our customer relationships and pursue new opportunities is incredible and I look forward to helping the team take the business to the next level."
Testa arrives from American Module of Body and Ranger Fire Apparatus where he was President of Sales for many years. Previously, Testa held positions building and selling aluminum bodies for the fire, rescue and ambulance industries. Testa will not only focus on expanding the company's territories, but also bolster the company's product line.
About First Priority Global
First Priority Global is a diversified manufacturer, upfitter and service provider of emergency and specialty vehicles. The company is a market leader in its four Divisions - EMS, Fire, Conversions and Electric Vehicles. Established nearly 20 years ago, First Priority's range of expertise encompasses design, manufacturing, service, fleet management and infrastructure installation to provide end-users with comprehensive one- stop solutions across their specialty vehicle needs .
For First Priority media inquiries, please contact:
Peter Sciara
848-221-8689
media@firstpriorityglobal.net
SOURCE First Priority Global