BATON ROUGE, La., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Investar Bank is excited to announce the addition of Jeffery “Jeff” Blum as the Executive Vice President and C&I Banking President. He will lead the new Commercial and Industrial (C&I) Division across all of Investar’s markets. Blum was previously with MidSouth Bank where he was the Chief Lending Officer. As the Executive Vice President and C&I Banking President, he will assist with future merger and acquisition opportunities as Investar spreads across Louisiana into new markets.
Jeff Blum, Commercial & Industrial Banking President/EVP, Investar Bank
Blum will be responsible for developing new relationships with prospective customers, retaining existing business and promoting additional bank services to current customers. He will also assist team members with complex account relationships and provide guidance relative to credit policy and complex financing arrangements. Blum brings with him nearly 25 years of experience in banking; spending 21 of those years with Whitney Bank where his duties included managing the commercial lending group, the retail division and other lines of business such as Trust, Investments and International Services for the St. Mary Parish market.
“I am thrilled with the addition of a new C&I Division. Jeff’s experience will be vital in developing the strategy for launching this new division,” John D’Angelo, President and Chief Executive Officer, Investar Bank, said. “Jeff will be a tremendous asset to our Executive Management Team and will be based out of our Lafayette office while overseeing C&I for all of our markets,” continued D’Angelo.
A native of Morgan City, LA, Blum has a deep understanding of the oil and gas industry and was very active in the community serving on several boards before moving to Lafayette three years ago. He is committed to supporting youth sports by serving as a Select Team baseball coach. As a family man residing in Lafayette, he continues his commitment to volunteering in his local community. Blum holds a bachelor’s degree from Tulane University where he was a pitcher for the Green Wave baseball team. He is also an alumnus of the Graduate School of Banking at LSU.
Investar Holding Corporation (NASDAQ:ISTR), parent company of wholly-owned subsidiary Investar Bank, had total assets of approximately $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2017. Investar Bank is a full-service community bank headquartered in Baton Rouge, La. offering extensive banking products and services for individuals and businesses for over 10 years. The Bank serves several markets across South Louisiana with 20 branches: the Baton Rouge area (four branches in Baton Rouge, one in Denham Springs, one in Port Allen, one in Gonzales, one in Prairieville, one in Jackson, one in Slaughter, one in St. Francisville & one in Zachary), Hammond, the Acadiana area (one in Lafayette, one in Ville Platte, one in Mamou and one in Pine Prairie) and the New Orleans area (one in Metairie, one in Elmwood and one in Mandeville). Equal Housing Lender. Member FDIC. To learn more, visit www.InvestarBank.com .
Contact:
Lisa O'Deay
225.227.2330
lisa.odeay@investarbank.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/48ea691d-30e5-4e4f-855f-8a2dcd0a54e8
Source:Investar Holding Corporation