CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Addison Group, a leading provider of professional services, today announced that Steven Levenkron has joined Addison Group as Chief Information Officer. In this newly created role, Levenkron will oversee an ever-growing and evolving team of professionals responsible for Addison Group’s network services, infrastructure, and security as well as its end user support and application management.
Levenkron joins Addison Group as an accomplished IT professional having served in multiple capacities at CDI Corporation, an Engineering and Technology solutions and staffing company based in Philadelphia, since 2000. Levenkron joined CDI as Director of Data Center Operations and was responsible for the organization’s Enterprise Computing Services. He was promoted to Chief Information Officer in 2011. Levenkron’s breadth of IT knowledge as well as industry experience will allow Addison Group to continue to execute on its growth strategy by strengthening its operational support structure.
“We created the office of the CIO to capitalize and expand on Addison Group’s robust growth trajectory, and Steven Levenkron is the technology leader we need to take our company to the next level in 2018 and beyond,” said Thomas Moran, CEO of Addison Group. “Technology is at the center of everything we do at Addison Group, and I am thrilled to add such an experienced IT executive to our Operations team. We remain committed to investing in the right people to deliver the highest level of service to our clients and candidates alike, and that starts with optimizing our operations.”
“Addison Group has a strong IT foundation already in place,” said Levenkron. “I look forward to bringing the ability to scale for the future growth of the company and am excited about the opportunity to contribute to Addison’s continued success.”
Addison Group saw enormous growth in 2017 with continued organic growth into new geographic markets as well as the acquisition of two consulting firms, Seattle-based AIM Consulting, and Austin-based Bridgepoint Consulting. The creation of a Chief Information Officer and addition of Levenkron marks the next chapter in the organization’s growth.
About Addison Group
Addison Group is a leading provider of professional staffing and search services. Bringing the best to the best, Addison combines a national network and localized service for broad reach with a personal touch. Specialized practices deliver the right candidate at the right time in Information Technology, Finance & Accounting, Healthcare, Executive Search, HR & Administrative, and Engineering. Addison has received Inavero’s Best of Staffing award for the past seven years. Learn more at www.addisongroup.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005261/en/
Addison Group
Rose Gregory, 312.424.0300
rose.gregory@addisongroup.com
Source: Addison Group