January 19, 2018 / 7:04 PM / in 7 minutes No charges anticipated against Las Vegas shooter's girlfriend: sheriff Keith Coffman , Dan Whitcomb 4 Min Read 
(Reuters) - The sheriff of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said on Friday he does not foresee charges being filed against the girlfriend of Las Vegas gunman Stephen Paddock, who fatally shot 58 people last October. 
“We do not anticipate charges being brought forward against Marilou Danley,” Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo, who oversees the Las Vegas police department, said as he announced the release of a preliminary investigative report. 
Lombardo also said the FBI was investigating a person he would not identify. He separately cited the police discovery on Paddock’s laptop computer of child pornography images. 
Danley, through her attorney, said on Oct. 4 that she told the FBI she had no idea Paddock was “planning violence against anyone.” Her attorney, Matt Lombard, could not immediately be reached for comment. 
Danley became a focus of the investigation for having shared his retirement community condo in Mesquite, Nevada, northeast of Las Vegas, before leaving the United States for the Philippines in mid-September. 
Lombardo said police still do not know why Paddock strafed an outdoor concert on Oct. 1, 2017, with gunfire from his 32nd-floor suite of the Mandalay Bay hotel on the Las Vegas strip. 
“This report is not going to answer every question or even answer the biggest question as to why he did what he did,” Lombardo said of Paddock, adding that FBI behavioral analysts were still investigating. 
Paddock did not leave behind a suicide note or a manifesto explaining his actions, Lombardo said. However, the sheriff added a large loss of money by Paddock just before the shooting could be a factor. 
The 81-page preliminary report on the shooting also includes details of Paddock’s “disturbing” search history on his computers, including his study of ballistics and SWAT tactics, Lombardo said. Police also recovered several hundred child pornography photographs on Paddock’s laptop, the report said. 
Lombardo also said the FBI has an ongoing case against an individual of federal interest, without providing further detail on that person. FBI officials could not immediately be reached for comment. 
‘ONLY SUSPECT’ 
Paddock is still believed to be the only suspect involved in the shooting, Lombardo said: “There was only one person responsible and that was Stephen Paddock.” 
According to the police report, Danley recalled Paddock behaving strangely during a stay at the Mandalay Bay in early September 2017. 
The two were staying in room 60-235 and she observed Paddock constantly looking out the windows of the room which overlooked the Las Vegas Village venue, the report says. Paddock would move from window to window looking at the site from different angles. 
Danley also described how Paddock’s demeanor changed over the course of the last year as he became “distant” and “germaphobic,” the report said. He also began to buy firearms and Danley believed it was a hobby of his, the report says. 
Paddock’s primary care doctor described him as odd with little emotion, said he may have been bipolar but Paddock would not discuss it and refused antidepressants, the report said. 
The release of the more comprehensive final report is not expected until closer to the end of this year, Lombardo said. 
In addition to the 58 killed, Lombardo said 422 were injured by gunfire and the total number of injuries associated with the incident was 851. Reporting by Keith Coffman in Denver and Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Editing by Phil Berlowitz and Susan Thomas