ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cardlytics , a purchase intelligence platform that helps make marketing more relevant and measurable, today announced that Sathish Gaddipati has been named Chief Technology Officer. Formerly Senior Vice President and Head of Technology at Cardlytics, Gaddipati will continue to lead platform engineering, technical product management, software development, data engineering, quality assurance, and IT operations for the company.
Gaddipati has played a key role in the advancement of the platform, which aggregated and analyzed approximately $1.3 trillion in U.S. purchase spend in 2016 – representing one in five debit and credit card swipes nationwide.
“After joining Cardlytics a year ago, I quickly realized this was the perfect fit for me. It’s incredibly gratifying that our combined efforts have allowed us to continue providing sophisticated technology to leading financial institutions, and I look forward to working on exciting future developments,” said Gaddipati.
“Sathish made an immediate impact upon joining our team,” said Scott Grimes, CEO and co-founder of Cardlytics. “His leadership has helped us advance our offerings. We’re thrilled to welcome him as CTO.”
Prior to working at Cardlytics, Gaddipati oversaw a number of global teams that built data and analytics platforms at The Weather Channel, The Walt Disney Company, NCR Corporation, InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG), Sun Microsystems, and Omnitracs. Notably, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office recently granted Gaddipati a patent for his low latency, high payload, high volume API gateway. Gaddipati holds an MS in Industrial Management from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT).
About Cardlytics
Cardlytics uses purchase-based intelligence to make marketing more relevant and measurable. We partner with more than 2,000 financial institutions to run their banking rewards programs that promote customer loyalty and deepen banking relationships. In turn, we have a secure view into where and when consumers are spending their money. We use these insights to help marketers identify, reach and influence likely buyers at scale, as well as measure the true sales impact of marketing campaigns. Headquartered in Atlanta, Cardlytics has offices in London, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Learn more at www.cardlytics.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005205/en/
ICR
Alex Wittner
cardlyticspr@icrinc.com
Source: Cardlytics