CHARLESTON, S.C., Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Blackbaud, Inc. (NASDAQ: BLKB), the world's leading cloud software company powering social good, will report its fourth quarter and full-year 2017 financial results on Tuesday, February 6 after the U.S. financial markets close for trading.
Save Blackbaud's fourth quarter and full-year 2017 earnings call event to a calendar
In conjunction with this announcement, Blackbaud will host a conference call on Wednesday, February 7 at 8:00 a.m. ET to discuss the company's financial results. A live webcast will be available and archived on Blackbaud's investor webpage and to access the call, enter passcode 492095 after dialing 800-289-0462 for US/Canada. View the full list of additional international call-in numbers here .
About Blackbaud
Blackbaud (NASDAQ: BLKB ) is the world's leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, corporations, education institutions, healthcare institutions and individual change agents—Blackbaud connects and empowers organizations to increase their impact through software, services, expertise, and data intelligence. The Blackbaud portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, Blackbaud is headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and has operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. For more information, visit www.blackbaud.com .
Investor Contact
Mark Furlong
Director of Investor Relations
843-654-2097
Mark.furlong@blackbaud.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blackbaud-announces-date-of-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-financial-results-300581978.html
SOURCE Blackbaud, Inc.