STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intrepid Aviation confirmed today the following recent appointments to its Board of Managers:
Mr. Alberto Sanchez – currently a Senior Advisor at Centerbridge Partners, Mr. Sanchez previously enjoyed a distinguished career with Banco Santander in a variety of executive roles, and prior to that with Bear Stearns and Deutsche Bank. Ms. Katherine Kavaler – currently a principal at Centerbridge Partners, Ms. Kavaler previously held roles at The Blackstone Group and JP Morgan. Mr. Hooman Yazhari – currently General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer & Head of Fleet Transactions at CHC Helicopter, Mr. Yazhari previously enjoyed a distinguished career in aviation and aviation finance with his most recent roles at ILFC and gategroup. Mr. Yazhari started his career as a corporate attorney at the London and Tokyo offices of Linklaters.
The remainder of the Board of Managers is comprised of:
Vincent Cebula Eric Hoffman Craig Huff Mike Lungariello Nicholas Tomassetti Doug Winter Gregg Zeitlin
A list of the Board of Managers and their bios can also be found on the Intrepid website ( www.intrepidaviation.com ).
ABOUT INTREPID AVIATION
Intrepid Aviation is a privately held commercial aircraft lessor. Intrepid and its team of experienced professionals invest in and manage a fleet of modern, in demand commercial jet aircraft on long-term lease to airline customers worldwide. Intrepid is headquartered in Stamford with offices in Dublin and Singapore.
ABOUT INTREPID AVIATION’S SHAREHOLDERS – CENTERBRIDGE PARTNERS & RESERVOIR CAPITAL
Centerbridge Partners, L.P. is a private investment management firm employing a flexible approach across investment disciplines – from private equity to credit and related strategies, and real estate – in an effort to find the most attractive opportunities for our investors and business partners. The Firm was founded in 2005 and, as of November 2017, has approximately $28 billion in capital under management with offices in New York and London. Centerbridge is dedicated to partnering with world-class management teams across targeted industry sectors and geographies to help companies achieve their operating and financial objectives. For more information, please visit www.centerbridge.com .
Reservoir Capital Group LLC. was established in 1998 as a privately held investment firm with a flexible, opportunistic investment approach and has approximately $5 billion in assets under management.
For more information on Intrepid Aviation, www.intrepidaviation.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005687/en/
Intrepid Aviation
Latoya Bailey, 203-905-4226
media@intrepidaviation.com
Source: Intrepid Aviation