AUSTIN, Texas, Asure Software (NASDAQ-CM:ASUR), a leading provider of Human Capital Management (HCM) and workplace management software, announced today that it has acquired TelePayroll and TelePay Insurance, a Southern California based provider of HR, payroll and employee benefits services. Family owned and operated since 1963, TelePayroll delivers its services to over 1000 regional companies, representing over 50,000 worksite employees.
For over 50 years, TelePayroll has provided payroll, human capital management and benefits services to employers on the West Coast. TelePayroll has built its business on a customer-centric model that includes dedicated customer support and deep payroll and tax expertise, powered by Asure Software’s industry leading HRIS platform, Evolution. Pat Goepel, CEO of Asure Software, will be the CEO of the new combined organization.
Asure CEO Pat Goepel stated that adding TelePayroll to the Asure brand will help further penetrate the West Coast market, specifically California. “This acquisition allows Asure and TelePayroll to evolve together as we are now able to provide clients with access to a greater breadth and depth of solutions for the modern workforce. TelePayroll clients will have the opportunity to choose from a variety of new products, including our powerful digital workspace solutions, while still enjoying the services and support they currently value from their relationship with TelePayroll.”
TelePayroll clients will experience no disruptions of service model or delivery and will benefit from many new enhancements. TelePayroll President Michael Gilberstadt said, “We are so pleased to take this next step in our company’s future by joining forces with Asure Software. Through this acquisition, we’re making it possible for our clients to be directly connected with the manufacturer of the software, ensuring early access to next generations of the software, as well as the opportunity to access a variety of powerful new solutions. Asure plans software updates based on input from users, and this relationship places the client in a position to impact the tools they rely on to maximize their workforce investment.”
Asure software is passionate about empowering every client’s workplace with innovative technology to make each workday easier. Asure’s suite of products including HCM software, AsureForce Time & Labor Management, and the AsureSpace SaaS platform for managing, monitoring and analyzing the Agile Workplace, create the full employee engagement solution.
About Asure Software
Asure Software, Inc., headquartered in Austin, Texas, offers intuitive and innovative solutions designed to help organizations of all sizes and complexities build companies of the future. Our cloud platforms enable more than 80,000 clients worldwide to better manage their people and space in a mobile, digital, multi-generational, and global workplace. Asure Software’s offerings include a fully-integrated HCM platform, flexible benefits and compliance administration, HR consulting, and time and labor management as well as a full suite of workspace management solutions for conference room scheduling, desk sharing programs, and real estate optimization. Visit us at www.asuresoftware.com .
Contact:
Stacy Zellner
Director of Marketing, Asure Software
Telephone: 888-323-8835 x 3111
E-mail: szellner@asuresoftware.com
Source:Asure Software Inc