HOUSTON, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ProBility Media Corp. (OTCQB:PBYA) based in Houston, Texas, a technology company offering immersive technologies, digital learning and compliance solutions for the industrial education and training markets, today announced the acquisition of North American Crane Bureau Group, Inc. (NACB) based in Lake Mary, Florida. NACB’s mission is to provide the most comprehensive safety training courses, materials, and certifications for operators, inspectors, and trainers within the crane and lifting industries both in the United States and around the world.
NACB is a partner with National Center for Construction Education & Research (NCCER) in the development of its’ original mobile crane operations curricula and most recently in the development of its nationally accredited crane operator certification program. NACB is an accredited training sponsor (ATS) and an accredited assessment center (AAC), offering a variety of programs and assessments under the auspices and guidance of NCCER and all the senior trainers are NCCER master trainers.
“The ProBility and NACB teams have already initiated the integration and are setting a new bar for training and safety in the crane industry,” stated Evan Levine, Chief Executive Officer of ProBility. “By leveraging NACB’s content, sophisticated simulation technology and extensive network of enterprise customers with ProBility’s state of the art virtual and augmented reality technologies, together we are creating and offering unique technological solutions to more efficiently train students on heavy equipment with methods that are not available in the marketplace today.”
“Since 1996, NACB has been a partner with NCCER in support of industry, assuring the highest quality training available in the market today,” stated Ted Blanton, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of NACB. “NACB is committed to the very best service available, while maintaining current state-of-the-art information and technology on safety as it applies to our industry. We are dedicated to providing the industry with a standard of excellence unparalleled in the field of safety. The new relationship with ProBility will allow us to take our products and services to a new level by offering our customers, in addition to ProBility’s forty thousand customers, more sophisticated options for heavy equipment training that are not yet available to our industry.”
NACB offers a multitude of training services and coursework for heavy equipment operators and offers sophisticated simulation technology for mobile, overhead bridge and tower crane training. NACB Interactive Educational Systems, Inc. (NACB-ies) has designed "The Dominator" series of crane training simulators. In a safe, controlled virtual environment operators can develop, test, and refresh their abilities on a variety tasks and skills necessary to safely operate a crane in today's work environment. NACB’s Mobile Crane Telescopic Boom Simulator, Overhead Bridge Crane Simulator, Hammerhead Tower Crane Simulator, Personal Desktop Simulators and the Mobile Crane Lattice Boom Simulator are the latest technology in simulation training for NACB-IES.
For more information, visit http://www.cranesafe.com .
For more information regarding the terms and conditions of the transaction, please refer to the forthcoming report on form 8-K expected to be filed by ProBility with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About ProBility Media Corp.
ProBility Media Corp. is an industrial education and training technology company headquartered in Houston, Texas, offering immersive technologies, digital learning and compliance solutions for a wide variety of industrial trades. ProBility is executing a disruptive strategy of defragmenting the education and training market place by offering high quality training courses and materials utilizing mixed reality and digital animation to prepare the workforce for excellence. ProBility services customers from the individual to the small business to the enterprise level corporation.
For more information, visit http://www.ProBilityMedia.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This Press Release may contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect the Company's current beliefs and are based upon information currently available to it. Accordingly, such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or advise in the event of any change, addition or alteration to the information included in this Press Release including such forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
ProBility Media Corp.
Evan Levine
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Noah Davis
President and Chief Operating Officer
713.652.3937
Investor Contact:
PCG Advisory Group
Chuck Harbey
646.863.7997
charbey@pcgadvisory.com
Source:ProBility Media Corp.