Innovative start-up focused on expanding 4G and 5G wireless capacity announces new facilities to accommodate company growth and research needs
KIRKLAND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pivotal Commware , a wireless start-up that received $17 million in funding this year, including an investment from Bill Gates, today announced it is relocating to new corporate headquarters in Kirkland, Washington.
Pivotal Commware are developers of Holographic Beam Forming™ (HBF), a new technique designed to expand the capacity and spectral efficiency of 4G and 5G networks to address the rapid growth in wireless data consumption. HBF leverages software-enabled antennas to help wireless carriers use their spectrum more efficiently by focusing radio signals where they are most needed, like spotlights in a theater.
Twice the size of the company’s previous headquarters in Bellevue, Washington, Pivotal’s new facilities will include a shielded anechoic chamber for precision measurement of holographic beamforming antennas. The location also has expanded lab facilities for RF and digital system validation, as well as an outdoor test range for high gain, large antenna testing.
“The additional space in our new headquarters is needed to support our rapid growth and enable us to expand our testing for Tier One operators and other customers,” said Brian Deutsch, CEO of Pivotal Commware. “Due to our team’s hard work and talent, our technology is being well-received in the market and we look forward to hiring more incredible people in the New Year.”
“Beamforming technologies will play an indispensable role in the wireless industry’s expansion of 4G capacity and 5G deployment,” said Monica Paolini, founder and president at Senza Fili Consulting , an industry research firm. “The Holographic Beam Forming solution that Pivotal has created delivers high performance and is an attractive option in terms of cost, size, weight and power.”
Pivotal Commware’s headquarters are located at 10801 120th Ave NE #200, Kirkland, WA 98033, p. (425) 365-0408.
About Pivotal Commware, Inc.
Pivotal Commware is bringing to market communications products based on Holographic Beam Forming technology. Incubated by Invention Science Fund, Pivotal Commware secured an initial funding round of $17 million in June 2017 with lead investments from The Thermo Companies and DIG Investment, along with those from Bill Gates, Lux Capital, private equity investor Barry Sternlicht, and others. The company is privately held and headquartered in Kirkland, Washington.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006266/en/
Global Results Communications
Mike Kilroy or Lora Wilson
949-689-9550
pivotal@globalresultspr.com
Source: Pivotal Commware, Inc.