WASHINGTON, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Polaris Alpha today named former National Security Agency (NSA) Deputy Director Rick Ledgett to its Board of Advisors. Mr. Ledgett is one of the world's foremost experts on cyber threats, having specialized in cryptology and computer-based threats for nearly 30 years for the NSA.
Most recently, Mr. Ledgett served as Deputy Director of the NSA from 2014 until his retirement in April 2017. He began his career at the NSA in 1988 and was the first National Intelligence Manager for Cyber at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and oversaw the agency's cyber threat operations center as it continuously worked to discover and counter adversarial threats. He served as principal advisor to the Director of National Intelligence on cyber matters, overseeing the creation of the Unified Intelligence Strategy for Cyber, and leading cyber security work across the Intelligence Community (IC). On January 4 th 2018, Mr. Ledgett received the prestigious National Security Medal from President Trump for three decades of service to the Intelligence Community.
Mr. Ledgett has served in many capacities at the NSA, in operational, management, and technical leadership roles at all levels. Previously, Ledgett served as Deputy Director for Analysis and Production, Deputy Director for Data Acquisition, and Chief, NSA/CSS Pacific. He also served in a joint IC operational activity, and as an instructor and course developer at the National Cryptologic School and the Joint Military Intelligence College.
"I am thrilled to join the team at Polaris Alpha, as many of its customers are organizations with whom I have worked in my previous capacities," said Ledgett. "The opportunity to continue serving the mission by providing insight into the challenges at various agencies is very exciting. Everyone's goal here is to provide the IC with the tools and services it needs to most effectively do its job and ensure the security of all Americans."
"We are deeply honored to have Rick serve on our Advisory Board. He is one of the preeminent cyber threat experts in the world, and is intimately familiar with the intelligence community and the continually evolving cyber landscape," said Peter Cannito, CEO, Polaris Alpha. "Rick's presence will undoubtedly ensure that we stay focused on how to best serve our IC customers for years to come."
The Polaris Alpha Advisory Board provides the company's executive leadership with strategic guidance and advice as it serves its customers in the military and Intelligence Community.
About Polaris Alpha
Polaris Alpha ("Polaris") provides advanced technical capabilities, specialized domain expertise, and mission critical solutions to Department of Defense and Intelligence Community customers. Polaris has approximately 1,300 employees with major offices in Annapolis Junction, MD; Columbia, MD, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD; Colorado Springs, CO; Denver, CO and Fredericksburg, VA; as well as customer sites both domestically and internationally. For further details on its customers and capabilities, please visit its website at www.polarisalpha.com or at LinkedIn .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/polaris-alpha-names-former-national-security-agency-deputy-director-rick-ledgett-to-its-advisory-board-300578577.html
SOURCE Polaris Alpha