NEW YORK (Reuters) - A New York state lawmaker was charged with 11 counts of fraud and obstruction of justice, accused of defrauding government agencies out of tens of thousands of dollars, including hurricane relief money, prosecutors said on Tuesday.
In four alleged schemes between 2012 to 2016, Assemblywoman Pamela Harris, 57, submitted falsified documents to obtain government funds for personal use, according to a statement from the U.S. Department of Justice.
Harris, who represents a district in New York City’s Brooklyn borough, also allegedly defrauded a bankruptcy court and falsely claimed to have been forced out of her residence by Hurricane Sandy to get financial assistance, it said.
She also was accused of obstructing justice after instructing witnesses in 2017 to lie to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents after becoming aware of the grand jury’s investigation into her alleged crimes.
Joel Cohen, an attorney representing Harris, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Before and during her tenure as assemblywoman, Harris allegedly went to great lengths to defraud local and federal agencies, FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge William Sweeney said in a statement.
“In fact, at a time when many residents in her district were dealing with the horrific aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, Harris was busy brewing a storm of her own,” Sweeney said.
Harris, whose district stretches through the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Bay Ridge, Coney Island and Dyker Heights, was arraigned on Tuesday at a U.S. District Court in Brooklyn.
In one of the four alleged schemes, between August 2014 and July 2015, when Harris was executive director of a not-for-profit organization in Brooklyn, she is accused of defrauding the New York City Council of $22,800 by falsely claiming the money would go toward rent for a studio art space for community use.
After submitting a forged lease agreement, Harris transferred the funds to her personal checking account and used the money to pay for personal expenses, including monthly mortgage payments, clothing and travel tickets, prosecutors said.
In another scheme, she is also accused of defrauding the Federal Emergency Management Agency of nearly $25,000 in temporary housing assistance by falsely claiming that she had been forced out of her Coney Island residence by Sandy, claiming that it was uninhabitable.
If convicted on all 11 counts, Harris, who was elected in November 2015 in a special election and was re-elected in 2016, faces a maximum sentence of 55 years in prison.
Editing by Frank McGurty
 