SAN FRANCISCO, Blockchain Capital , the premier venture capital firm focused exclusively on the blockchain technology sector and crypto ecosystem, today announced that Jimmy Song has joined the firm as a Venture Partner. Song, a Bitcoin Core developer, brings deep technical expertise to Blockchain Capital. He will serve as a new bridge between Blockchain Capital and the crypto developer community, provide technical expertise to the firm's investment research, and lead upcoming programs to foster blockchain technology innovation.
"The blockchain sector is evolving much differently than that of the internet, which has made it possible for the engineers and developers at the forefront of innovation in this sector to personally retain more of the value that they create," said Bart Stephens , Co-founder and Managing Partner of Blockchain Capital. "Jimmy has demonstrated a deep commitment to the crypto development community. These 'unsung heroes' push the innovation envelope and bring to market much of the technology and services that comprise the blockchain and crypto industry today. We're thrilled to have Jimmy on the team and are looking forward to working with him to find new ways to add value to the ecosystem."
Song currently runs Programming Blockchain , a for-profit company that's training students all around the world in blockchain programming and development techniques. Prior to that he was a principal architect at Paxos and vice president of engineering at Armory Technologies, where he managed the development of enterprise-level Bitcoin wallet software. Song is also the editor and author of popular blog " Bitcoin Tech Talk " (14,000 followers) and YouTube " Off Chain with Jimmy Song " (17,500 subscribers).
"I discovered a passion for cryptocurrency back in 2011 before much of the hype began," said Jimmy Song. "At that time, the community was relatively small and comprised of a core group of developers willing to volunteer their time and intellectual capital for the good of the industry. Now, the ecosystem has soared past numerous milestones. I'm excited to join Blockchain Capital to support the developer community by creating new technologies and attracting world class engineering talent to our industry."
Song resides in Austin, Texas and is a graduate of the University of Michigan, where he received a Bachelors of Science in Mathematics.
About Blockchain Capital
Founded in 2013, Blockchain Capital is one of the earliest and most active investors in the blockchain technology industry and the crypto ecosystem. Blockchain Capital has raised and deployed three venture funds, including the first ever ICO of a venture fund (BCAP). The firm is based in San Francisco and was founded by serial entrepreneurs and Silicon Valley investors Bart Stephens and Brad Stephens. To learn more, please visit http://blockchain.capital.com and follow @blockchaincap .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blockchain-capital-welcomes-veteran-bitcoin-developer-jimmy-song-as-venture-partner-300587828.html
SOURCE Blockchain Capital