FITCHBURG, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today Simonds International and Burton Saw. announced the merger of the companies in a transaction that will create the leading producer and marketer of cutting tools and related equipment for the primary wood fiber industry. The combined entity, Wood Fiber Holdings, Inc., will continue to operate in the United States and Canada with 12 facilities located in the major wood fiber regions of North America. All products and customers segments currently served by Burton, Simonds and B.G.R. Saws will continue uninterrupted during the integration process and thereafter.
Ray Martino, President and Chief Executive Officer of Simonds said: “This merger will combine the two leading companies in our industry with a deep history of product innovation, quality products and customer focused organizations providing value added services to our customers. The cultures of the two companies are similar and will strengthen our service to the industry. The Burton, Simonds and B.G.R. brands are prominent in the industry and will remain a core part of the combined company in the future.”
Craig Tompkins, President and CEO of Burton Saw said: “The merger brings together the strengths of two great companies with a common goal, efficient and innovative solutions to the industry we serve. The products and services offered by the merger will enable both companies to go beyond current offerings and bring a complete solution through products, services and equipment that reflect the needs of the marketplace.”
About Simonds International
Simonds International, founded in 1832, is a leading supplier and marketer of cutting tools and related products to the wood, pulp, paper and tree care industries. B.G.R. Saws was established in 1968, through almost 50 years of history the company developed into a sawmill source for their saw needs as well as innovative line of filing room equipment. Simonds and B.G.R. merged in May of 2017. For more information, call (800) 343- 1616 or visit www.simondsint.com .
About Burton
Burton Saw and Supply, founded in Vancouver, BC in 1903, originally sold only saw manufacturer supplies to the mills of Western Canada. In 1927, The Burton Saw Company moved to Eugene, Oregon and transformed itself into the leading provider of products, equipment and technical solutions to the saw filing and knife grinding rooms, as the company expanded throughout North America. For more information visit our website at www.burtonsaw.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005073/en/
Simonds International
Ray Martino, 978-424-0176
President & CEO
rmartino@simondsint.com
Source: Simonds International