PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Varian (NYSE: VAR) today announced its Halcyon ™ system has received Taiwan FDA approval, which allows the company to market this new cancer treatment system in Taiwan. This approval further expands the global availability of Halcyon and high-quality, cost-effective cancer treatments.
As an advanced cancer treatment system with a human-centered and user-friendly design, Halcyon is engineered to revolutionize clinical workflow, accelerate installation timeframes, expedite commissioning, simplify training, and automate treatment. It simplifies and enhances virtually every aspect of image-guided volumetric intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). It is well suited to handle the majority of cancer patients, offering advanced treatments for lung, esophagus, brain, head & neck, and many other forms of cancer.
"We are very proud to further expand Halcyon's global availability, and with Taiwan FDA approval, clinicians in Taiwan now can take advantage of the unique capabilities of this system," said Kevin O'Reilly, president of Asia Pacific for Varian. "We look forward to further growing Halcyon's availability as we partner with our customers in the fight against cancer."
Halcyon has already received FDA 510(k) clearance in the US, CE mark in Europe, Shonin approval in Japan and ANVISA registration in Brazil since its launch in May 2017. First treatments have shown Halcyon's human-centered and user-friendly design can enhance patient comfort and increase the treatment efficiency. With the streamlined workflow, Halcyon only requires nine steps from the start to the end of treatment compared to up to more than 30 steps with older technologies.
For more information on Halcyon visit www.varian.com/halcyon .
About Varian
Varian focuses energy on saving lives and is the world's leading manufacturer of medical devices and software for treating and managing cancer. Headquartered in Palo Alto, California, Varian employs approximately 6,500 people around the world. For more information, visit http://www.varian.com and follow @VarianMedSys on Twitter.
Press Contact
Mark Plungy
Director, Public Relations
+1 (650) 424-5630
mark.plungy@varian.com
Investor Relations Contact
J. Michael Bruff
Vice President, Investor Relations
+1 (650) 424-5163
mike.bruff@varian.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/varian-halcyon-treatment-system-receives-taiwan-fda-approval-300578338.html
SOURCE Varian