Technology veteran brings expertise to management team as company continues to evolve its portfolio of IT support services
SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AIS Technology Services, southern California’s leading information technology services provider, announced today that Jorge Bujazan is joining the company as a Solution Engineer, effective immediately. Bujazan, formerly a Solution Architect at KIO Networks, brings 11 years of experience in creating innovative solutions in cloud and infrastructure deployments.
“Jorge brings a creative point of view to engineering custom solutions for clients across our portfolio,” said Greg Rollet, CEO of AIS. “His expertise with infrastructure and cloud will allow our customers to realize increases in performance and efficiency in every aspect of their technology services. Jorge will be key in helping our customers make the best use of the growing range of advanced IT, cloud and colocation services AIS provides.”
Bujazan joins AIS from KIO Networks U.S. operations (recently acquired by the Zayo Group) having also previously consulted with the Uptime Institute on a framework for network resiliency. During his four years at KIO, Bujazan designed solutions for hybrid cloud deployments and migrations, with a focus on apps and workloads in the cloud. At KIO, he oversaw many significant AWS projects, including designing a framework that enabled client environment portability between the data center-based community cloud and the AWS public cloud. This innovative solution allowed the KIO operations team to manage infrastructure in any environment; on premise, colocation, community cloud or public cloud, just as if it were in the data center. Prior to KIO, Bujazan was responsible for the architecture and design of the AT&T Fiber to the Building project, a nationwide program to replace copper lines with fiber across their network. “His reputation for innovative solutions like this are why we see Jorge as a natural fit at AIS,” added Rollet.
“I’m eager to get started during this exciting time for AIS and their customers —we are building a whole new generation of technology solutions, focused on hybrid cloud deployments; bringing a range of new capabilities and performance to clients across their portfolio,” said Bujazan. “Hybrid cloud architectures have the potential to redefine efficiency and performance across AIS’ large and diverse customer base. I am thrilled to take a fresh look at existing platforms and create new systems that increase performance, resiliency and scalability.”
About AIS Technology Services
As southern California’s leading data center and cloud services provider, AIS Technology Services has the experience and expertise needed to help companies transform their infrastructure and streamline business processes. With geographically diverse data centers in San Diego and Phoenix delivering colocation and cloud solutions over a secure, scalable platform, AIS provides customers with the security, reliability and redundancy they need. From cloud to colocation to managed services, AIS acts as an extension of in-house IT teams. Learn more at http://americanis.net/
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006754/en/
AIS Technology Services
Edward Levens, 919-346-5531
eslevens@propelmg.com
Source: AIS Technology Services