DEFIANCE, Ohio, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- SB Financial Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: SBFG), a diversified financial services company providing full-service community banking, mortgage banking, wealth management, item and statement processing services, expects to release its fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 financial results on Thursday, January 25, 2018, after the close of the market. The company will hold a related conference call and webcast on Friday, January 26, at 11:00 a.m. EST.
Interested parties may access the conference call by dialing 1-888-338-9469. The conference call also will be webcast live at http://www.yoursbfinancial.com/investorrelations.html . An audio replay of the call will be available on the SB Financial Group website.
About SB Financial Group
Headquartered in Defiance, Ohio, SB Financial is a diversified financial services holding company with two operating subsidiaries: State Bank and Diverse Computer Marketers (DCM). State Bank provides a full range of financial services for consumers and small businesses, including wealth management, private client group services, mortgage banking and commercial and agricultural lending, operating through a total of 20 banking centers; 19 in nine Ohio counties and one center in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and 24 full-service ATMs. The Company has six loan production offices located throughout the Tri-State region of Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. DCM provides item processing services to community banks located primarily in the Midwest. SB Financial's common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol "SBFG". SB Financial's preferred stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol "SBFGP".
In May 2017, SB Financial was ranked #145 on the American Banker Magazine's list of Top 200 Publicly Traded Community Banks and Thrifts based on three-year average return on equity ("ROE").
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sb-financial-group-inc-announces-schedule-for-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-results-300579099.html
SOURCE SB Financial Group, Inc.