RUEIL-MALMAISON, France--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Regulatory News:
With effect from February 1 st 2018, Albéric Chopelin is appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer, Groupe PSA (Paris:UG). He will report to Carlos Tavares, Chairman of the Managing Board.
The Group Sales & Marketing Office was created in January 2015, with objective to overhaul Sales and Commercial efficiency across the globe, reap synergetic commercial benefits, consolidate the Sales ‘Job Family’ in and for the digital age and ensure the assessment of operational teams and propose relevant action plans.
The Group Sales & Marketing Office is responsible of the Peugeot, Citroën, DS Automobiles, Opel, Vauxhall Brands and works transversely with all Regions across the globe, as well as with the Parts & Service Division.
The objective of this leadership function is to support the Brands’ move up market and enhance the commercial and marketing skills base.
Albéric Chopelin was Managing Director of Peugeot Citroën DS Automobiles Germany. He has managed the company turnaround since 3 years and engaged sales and marketing teams into a profitable growth, closing 2017 at 4% market share (+15% YoY).
He succeeds Stephen Norman, who becomes Managing Director of Vauxhall UK and OPEL Ireland.
About Groupe PSA
The Groupe PSA designs unique automotive experiences and delivers mobility solutions to meet all client expectations. The Group has five car brands, Peugeot , Citroën , DS , Opel and Vauxhall , as well as a wide array of mobility and smart services under its Free2Move brand, aiming to become a great carmaker and the preferred mobility provider. It is an early innovator in the field of autonomous and connected cars . It is also involved in financing activities through Banque PSA Finance and in automotive equipment via Faurecia . Find out more at groupe-psa.com/en .
Media library: medialibrary.groupe-psa.com / @GroupePSA
Communications Department - www.groupe-psa.com/en - +33 6 61 93 29 36 - @GroupePSA
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005449/en/
Groupe PSA
Media contact:
+33 6 61 93 29 36
psa-presse@mpsa.com
Source: Groupe PSA