ALLENTOWN, Pennsylvania, January 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
American Energy Partners, Inc. (OTC: AEPT) (the "Company", "American Energy" or "AEPT"), a diversified energy company, announces the appointment of John Pippy as President of the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, American Energy Solutions, LLC. The Company is also pleased to announce that Mr. Pippy will assume the role of Chief Strategy Officer for AEPT.
"Mr. Pippy's unique background and track record of success in strategic planning, government relations and operations integration are a perfect match for AEPT," states American Energy's Chairman & CEO Brad Domitrovitsch. "His proven ability to think creatively and influence those around him through collaborative efforts are key elements in ensuring internal and external partners are synchronized with and understand our strategic vision."
Mr. Pippy brings over 20 years' experience in international and domestic government and corporate relations while serving as a Pennsylvania State Representative, Pennsylvania State Senator and most recently as the past CEO of the Pennsylvania Coal Alliance; a trade association representing hundreds of companies in the multi-billion dollar Pennsylvania Bituminous Coal Industry. Mr. Pippy is also an officer in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and brings 25 years of military leadership, project management and organizational expertise. Mr. Pippy has a B.S. in Environmental Engineering from West Point, NY, a Masters in International Relations from Irish American University, Dublin, Ireland and a Masters in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, Carlisle, PA.
"AEPT is poised to see tremendous growth in 2018 and I'm looking forward to work with the AEPT team and partners as we increase value for our shareholders while having a positive impact on the environment" said Mr. Pippy.
American Energy Partners , Inc. ( AEPT )
AEPT and its group of companies focus on providing solutions in markets where energy production and water meet technology. Collectively, the subsidiaries are engaged in the energy sector as well as the design, construction and operation of regional water treatment facilities that serve the industrial, energy and government sectors.
Hydration Corporation of PA, LLC ("HCPA") is engaged in the businesses of water exploration, water augmentation, and the treatment of impacted waters. Notably, its intellectual property delivers one of the highest energy yields from a broad range of water-bearing assets, with one of the lowest capital expenditures of any other known water processes. American Energy Solutions, LLC provides treatment technologies that contribute to HCPA's business model of low-cost treatment and distribution. As a provider of design, this subsidiary is capable of repeatable and synergistic services across the value chain. Gilbert Oil & Gas Company is leveraging broad industry valuation experience to source drilling, operating, and partnership opportunities in the upstream oil and gas space. It is positioned to become a strong customer of AEPT's other subsidiaries while providing them with the foundation to attract other customers and enter new markets.
For additional information, visit: American Energy Partners, Inc.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, particularly as related to, among other things, the business plans of AEPT, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding AEPT's financial position and business strategy. The words or phrases "would be," "will allow," "intends to," "may result," "are expected to," "will continue," "anticipates," "expects," "estimate," "project," "indicate," "could," "potentially," "should," "believe," "think", "considers" or similar expressions are intended to identify "forward-looking statements." These forward-looking statements fall within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934 and are subject to the safe harbor created by these sections. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, involve known and unknown risks, a reliance on third parties for information, transactions or orders that may be cancelled, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or developments in our industry, to differ materially from the anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results include risks and uncertainties related to the fluctuation of global economic conditions, the performance of management and our employees, our ability to obtain financing, competition, general economic conditions and other factors that are detailed in our periodic reports and on documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements made herein are as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. AEPT cautions readers not to place undue reliance on such statements. AEPT does not undertake, and AEPT specifically disclaims any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. Actual results may differ materially from AEPT's expectations and estimates.
Company Contact: contact@americanenergy-inc.com , +1-610-217-3275
SOURCE American Energy Partners, Inc.