1 COMMENTS Logistics hiring stalled in December even as the larger shipping economy surged and parcel carriers added workers ahead of the holidays.
Warehousing and storage payrolls shrank by 4,800 jobs last month, the U.S. Department of Labor reported Friday, halting an eight-month expansion as employers added thousands of workers to handle e-commerce orders heading into the holidays. The dip after the warehousing sector added 8,000 jobs in November is based on preliminary figures that could be revised. It comes as early reports suggest robust retail sales during the period between Thanksgiving and Christmas that were led by strong consumer spending online.
Courier and messenger companies added 2,100 jobs in December, the fourth straight monthly increase for parcel delivery firms. Last month, United Parcel Service Inc., which had said it planned to hire roughly 95,000 seasonal workers for the peak season, called in hundreds of its office workers to help handle a late wave of holiday shipments.
The U.S. economy overall added 148,000 jobs last month, fewer than economists had expected, while unemployment remained steady at 4.1%. The manufacturing and construction sectors added a combined 55,000 jobs, signaling stronger growth in the industrial economy that would fuel more shipping in the coming months.
The U.S. factory sector posted a 14-year-high in sales in December, and falling inventories suggested that production may have to increase in 2018 to satisfy demand, according to the Institute for Supply Management.
“The manufacturing segment is very strong and that’s going to be a good boost for freight activity,” said Jonathan Starks, chief operating officer for transportation research group FTR.
The national pullback in warehouse hiring contrasted with reports from operators of distribution centers who said they were scrambling to add workers last fall for an anticipated surge in online commerce.
ProLogistix, a large logistics staffing firm, boosted its head count by more than 25% during the 2017 holiday peak, with no drop-off in late December, said Senior Vice President Brian Devine. He expects to lose about 15% of those seasonal workers after the holidays.
Transportation companies are riding a wave of increased demand from retailers and manufacturers. But carriers say they are having a hard time recruiting and retaining drivers to satisfy freight demand. Trucking companies lost 600 jobs last month, according to the Labor Department, even as some firms are boosting driver pay or other incentives.
Chattanooga, Tenn.-based Covenant Transportation Group Inc. said this week it is offering bonuses of up to $20,000 for each driver who signs up to work under a “team driver” operation where drivers switch off time behind the wheel on long-haul deliveries.
Drivers often leave the industry for construction or energy jobs that allow them to spend more time at home. Some are retiring, and others may be driving fewer miles than previously because of a new safety mandate requiring truckers to electronically monitor their hours behind the wheel.
“The freight is coming to us. We’ve got to have the capacity to fulfill it,” said Jason Beardall, president of England Logistics Inc. “It’s completely dependent on will we have enough trucks to see it through.”
Write to Jennifer Smith at jennifer.smith@wsj.com