LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- LAC Group Chief Executive Officer and founder Deborah Schwarz has named Robert Corrao as the organization's next CEO. Schwarz who started the company in 1986 and grew it from a one-person consultancy into an information management firm employing nearly 400 employees in the U.S. and U.K. will become the firm's Chief Strategy Officer, a newly created position.
"Rob has been instrumental in building up LAC and guiding its growth, he's the right choice to prepare our company to be a much larger information services organization," said Schwarz. "As CSO, I'll focus on developing new business and LAC's projects and plans for growth."
Corrao previously served as LAC Group president, reporting to Schwarz. He joined LAC Group in 2009 after Schwarz recruited him. While at LAC Group, Corrao worked closely with Schwarz to develop and implement strategy. He helped the company: create and achieve its strategic initiatives; acquire and integrate several business units under one brand, while preserving the autonomy of unit leaders; streamline operations; expand internationally; connect its hundreds of remote employees with innovative collaboration technologies; launch a virtual research offering and build and launch new business lines.
"In her new role as our new chief strategy officer, Deb will cultivate new deals, in collaboration with our division leaders, maintain select client relationships, and continue to work closely with me on strategy development and execution," added Corrao. "Her deep institutional knowledge, networks and relationships, and her experience gained over the past 31 years perfectly suits her new role."
Before LAC Group, Corrao was the president of Softlink America, an integrated software solution focused on the technology needs of special and corporate libraries and archives. Corrao is a member of the Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM) and Association of Moving Image Archivists (AMIA), Special Libraries Association (SLA) and the American Association of Law Libraries (AALL). He is also a volunteer pilot for Angel Flight West, a non-profit arranging free air transportation in response to health care and other compelling human needs. Corrao, in addition to sitting on LAC Group's Board of Directors, is also a board member of the National Brain Tumor Society and the Board of Certification for Emergency Nursing. Corrao holds a business administration degree from the University of Notre Dame.
About LAC Group
Los Angeles-based LAC Group provides critical information management solutions such as competitive intelligence, research services, preservation and archival services, spend and cost management as well as knowledge management services for Fortune 500 companies, law firms, Hollywood studios, academic institutions and government agencies. Founded in 1986, LAC Group is a leader in delivering high-quality, cost-effective business services that help organizations manage and curate physical and digital information, data and content. For more information, please visit lac-group.com .
MEDIA CONTACT
Bill Perry
188299@email4pr.com
+ 1 (614) 975-7538
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
LAC Group Press Kit
LAC GROUP ONLINE
Websites:
LAC Group
LibSource
Chase Cost Management
LAC Federal
PRO-TEK Vaults
LibGig
Facebook: www.facebook.com/LACGroup
Twitter: http://twitter.com/lac_group
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/lac-group
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lac-group-names-corrao-new-ceo-company-founder-schwarz-takes-strategy-role-300580901.html
SOURCE LAC Group