MENTOR, Ohio, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- MC Sign Company ("MC"), the leading nationwide provider of facility signage and lighting services, is pleased to announce the acquisition of Integra Service Group ("Integra"), a Schenectady, NY based electrical and voice & data installation, repair, and rollout management company.
MC looks forward to continuing its recent growth and expansion of services with the addition of Integra Service Group and their commitment to quality and excellence.
"We have always valued our partnership with MC," states Norman Dutcher, President of Integra. "They have great people with extensive expertise. I am confident that joining their team will benefit all of our combined employees, customers, and contractors."
"Integra has a long-standing history of impeccable client services and we are thrilled they will be joining our MC family," says Timothy Eippert, MC President/CEO.
MC provides signage and lighting services for some of the nation's most recognizable blue chip companies in diverse end markets including hospitality, petroleum, financial, quick service restaurants, and retail to name a few.
"We will now have the ability to offer our clients in-house electrical services solutions, with a wider net of trusted vendors," says Eippert. "We continue to look for ways to add value to our client base and this move will allow increased efficiency and further competitive pricing in our signage and lighting projects, as well as electrical as a new line of service."
About MC Sign Company
Established in 1953, MC Sign Company is one of the largest national providers of signage and lighting solutions. Services include program management, installation, service, maintenance, energy saving retrofits, real-time reporting, and more. The national service center is available 24/7 and offers the broadest national coverage available. Learn more at mcsign.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mc-sign-company-announces-acquisition-of-integra-service-group-and-the-expansion-of-electrical-services-300585999.html
SOURCE MC Sign Company