TROY, Michigan--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Horizon Global Corporation (NYSE: HZN), the world’s leading manufacturer of branded towing and trailering equipment, today announced the appointment of Carl Bizon as President of its Horizon Americas segment, effective January 29th. Bizon is a recognized leader in the towing and trailering industry and has over 23 years of experience driving global businesses to accelerated growth.
“Carl Bizon is a proven leader with a passion for our business,” said Mark Zeffiro, President and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Global. “Carl is uniquely qualified to lead our largest operating segment as he previously led the international business, including both Europe-Africa and Asia-Pacific, prior to Horizon becoming a public company. We are confident in his ability to hit the ground running and positively impact the business from day one.
“Carl’s extensive knowledge of the industry, our products and our customers, as well as his successful track record with our Company, make him an excellent fit to transform the operating performance of Horizon Americas and drive sustained, profitable growth in the region. We are excited to welcome Carl to the team and look forward to his contributions to the achievement of Horizon Global’s long-term growth objectives and key financial priorities.”
“It’s an honor to join this industry-leading Company,” said Bizon. “I am excited to work with Mark and the Horizon Global leadership team. I look forward to helping the Company pursue the significant opportunities that lie ahead, as I work with the Americas team to optimize manufacturing and distribution operations and drive sales and marketing efforts to achieve its goals.”
Bizon joins Horizon Global having most recently served as Chief Executive Officer at Jayco Corporation in Australia. Jayco is Australia’s largest manufacturer of camper trailers, caravans, and motorhomes.
Bizon replaces John Aleva, former President of Horizon Americas, who left the Company to pursue other opportunities.
About Horizon Global
Horizon Global is the #1 designer, manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of high-quality, custom-engineered towing, trailering, cargo management and other related accessory products in North America, Australia and Europe. The Company serves OEMs, dealer networks, retailers, distributors, installers and the end consumer as the category leader in the automotive, leisure and agricultural market segments. Horizon provides its customers with outstanding products and services that reflect the Company’s commitment to market leadership, innovation and operational excellence.
Horizon Global is home to some of the world’s most recognized brands in the towing and trailering industry, including: Reese®, Hayman-Reese™, Draw-Tite®, Bulldog®, Fulton®, ROLA®, Tekonsha®, and Westfalia®. Horizon Global has approximately 4,600 employees in 58 facilities across 21 countries.
For more information, please visit www.horizonglobal.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005272/en/
Horizon Global Corporation
Christi Cowdin, 248-593-8810
Director, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations
ccowdin@horizonglobal.com
Source: Horizon Global Corporation