NEW YORK and LONDON, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The TransHuman Code is the first interactive "knowledge platform" for managing the convergence of humanity and technology, its impact on our daily lives, and the long-term implications. This dynamic initiative will be introduced on January 24 at Davos, Switzerland during the world's foremost assembly of international leaders.
In an innovative multi-media program, informing and engaging all citizens of the world about the dynamic influences of technology in our personal, communal and professional lives, The TransHuman Code was formed to redefine the hierarchy of our needs and how we will meet them in the future.
Originated by Swiss cybersecurity pioneer, WISeKey and authored by Carlos Moreira and David Fergusson, The TransHuman Code will feature exclusive insights from the world's premier authorities on the application of AI, Blockchain, Cybersecurity, IoT, and Robotics to transhuman… education, employment, communication, transportation, communities, security, government, food, finance, entertainment and health.
"The TransHuman Code Davos Gathering of Minds," hosted by CBS Inside Edition Host, Megan Alexander, will bring together global leaders in technology, business, finance, government, academia and the media for an exclusive event. The event will feature an interactive discussion amongst the assembled leading experts including:
Alex Pentland | Director, MIT Connection Services and Human Dynamics Lab
Evgeni Borisov | Founder and CEO, Vimana Global
Salim Ismail | Author, Exponential Organizations and Founding CEO, Singularity University
Greg Cross | Chief Business Officer, Soul Machines
Rachel | The World's First Digital Person
Shantenu Agarwal | Director, IBM Watson
Rodrigo Arboleda | Chairman, Fast Track Institute
Wang Wei | Founder, China M&A Group
An invitation-only audience will be amongst the first in the world to meet Rachel, the revolutionary Digital Personal Assistant from Soul Machines and IBM Watson . Able to see you, listen to you and feel your emotions, Rachel's neural network combines biologically inspired models of the human brain and key sensory networks to create a Human Computing Engine.
Vimana has created the world's first autonomous aerial vehicle for transporting people and payload. With vertical takeoff and landing capability, the Vimana platform, combines IOT, AI and Blockchain, and is already in the air bringing the future travel to the market today.
Beyond the launch, The TransHuman Code initiative will facilitate interactive conversations, provide access to the latest scientific knowledge and discoveries, and offer rare access to key people and places at the forefront of our TransHuman future. Subject matter experts will engage and inform the global citizenry in thoughtful dialogue regarding the dynamic interplay between humanity and ever-evolving technology. The initiative will help us to better understand the merger of man and machine in our personal, communal, and professional existence, and challenge us to confront the application of technology to the infrastructure of our lives. This is The TransHuman Code at work.
To learn more about The TransHuman Code at Davos, visit: www.transhumancode.com
THE M&A ADVISOR
The M&A Advisor was founded to offer insights and intelligence on mergers and acquisitions, establishing the industry's leading media outlet in 1998. Today, the firm is recognized as the world's premier leadership organization for mergers & acquisition, restructuring and corporate finance professionals, delivering a range of integrated services from offices in New York and London. www.maadvisor.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-transhuman-code-featuring-the-ma-advisor-co-ceo-david-fergusson-with-wisekey-ceo-carlos-moreira-to-be-introduced-by-wisekey-at-davos-300586732.html
SOURCE The M&A Advisor