RICHMOND, Va., Jan. 19, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Union Bank & Trust (“Union”) today announced it has named Sara O. Rountree as Senior Vice President and Head of Digital Strategy effective February 6, 2018.
“Sara will bring focus and energy to our team as we concentrate our efforts on digital offerings to help our customers bank more easily with Union,” said John G. Stallings, president of Union Bank & Trust. “She’ll report directly to me and be a valuable partner with technology, operations, marketing and each of our business segment leaders to build out and improve our digital solutions that will allow our customers the flexibility to bank when, where and how they want.”
Rountree, 39, joins Union from Wells Fargo where she was Vice President, Credit Card Emerging Payments – Payments Security. She previously held various leadership positions focusing on digital strategies for personal lending and online banking. Rountree has also worked at SingleStone where she worked on the integration of HSBC/Capital One. She began her career at Capital One working in email marketing and communications in Richmond and auto finance in San Diego.
Rountree received her Bachelor of Science from Duke University.
ABOUT UNION BANKSHARES CORPORATION
Headquartered in Richmond, Virginia, Union Bankshares Corporation (NASDAQ:UBSH) is the holding company for Union Bank & Trust, which has 150 banking offices, 39 of which are operated as Xenith Bank, a division of Union Bank & Trust of Richmond, Virginia, and approximately 220 ATMs located throughout Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina. Union Bank & Trust also operates Shore Premier Finance, a specialty marine lender. Non-bank affiliates of the holding company include: Union Mortgage Group, Inc., which provides a full line of mortgage products, Old Dominion Capital Management, Inc., which provides investment advisory services, and Union Insurance Group, LLC, which offers various lines of insurance products.
Additional information on the Company is available at http://investors.bankatunion.com .
Investor Contact: Bill Cimino (804) 448-0937, VP and Director of Investor Relations
Media Contact: Beth Shivak (804) 327-5746, VP and Director of Corporate Communications
Source:Union Bankshares Corporation