LONDON, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Workshare, the leading provider of file comparison, security and transaction management software, today announced the recruitment of three leading industry figures as it expands its global operations and expertise in the legal industry.
After a record year in 2017, where the firm welcomed over 1,000 new customers, Workshare is now adding significant legal experience to its senior team across the globe. By selecting experts from the legal industry, Workshare continues to deliver on its commitment to meeting the needs of the legal market and consolidating their position as market leaders for file comparison, while fueling growth of their security and transaction management propositions.
The key global appointments in the Workshare team are:
Curt Meltzer as VP Strategic Relationships, based in New York. Curt's enviable and extensive legal IT background comes from having served as CIO at leading firms Chadbourne & Parke, Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe, Dorsey & Whitney, and Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly. Curt will represent the voice of the market, leading Workshare's client advisory and engagement group, while nurturing key relationships with Workshare's technology and channel partners. Shaun Locke as General Manager for APAC, based in Sydney. Shaun has extensive operational experience across the APAC region, having spent four years with both Reckon and DocsCorp. He will be focused on building out and expanding Workshare's operations in the region. Dave Englund as Strategic Account Director based in New York. Dave will be looking after clients on the East coast and Canada. He has a deep knowledge of the legal software industry having spent 10 years at OpenText and three years at iManage where he created engagement and highly-valued relationships.
Nick Thomson, Workshare CRO, said, "Our success in 2017 has come from listening and engaging closely with the market to address concerns being missed by other vendors. The results have been outstanding, with customers selecting Workshare for comparison, while some of the largest global firms have chosen the Workshare Secure and Transact innovations to enhance security and productivity. In 2018, we recommit our resources to listening to the market and bringing in talent that will represent our market to continue our evolution."
On Shaun's appointment, Nick said "We see significant potential in the APAC region and we're now in a position to invest and grow there. With his extensive knowledge of the market, we're delighted Shaun has chosen to lead our efforts."
In addition to adding extensive legal commercial experience, Workshare was keen to appoint a highly respected industry figure, whose experience and perspective could shape their product roadmap and engagement model. On Curt's appointment, Nick said, "We're ecstatic Curt Meltzer has decided to join Workshare – his extensive BigLaw experience will be invaluable in pushing us to innovate and engage even more closely with our market and our clients. It's a very exciting time for us."
Curt said, "Having worked with the Workshare team over the last 2.5 years helping shape the Secure and Risk Analytics proposition, I've been thoroughly impressed by the quality of the engineering and the dedication to delivering legal specific solutions. I'm excited to help Workshare build out its engagement model, and to shape the roadmaps to meet the specific needs of the legal industry."
Press Contact Information:
Caterina Latte caterina.latte@workshare.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/workshare-expands-its-leadership-team-with-three-major-new-appointments-300590139.html
SOURCE Workshare