NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Snow Phipps Group ("Snow Phipps"), a leading middle-market private equity firm is pleased to announce that veteran business development executive Philip S. Kemp, Jr. has joined the firm as Managing Director, Head of Investor Relations. Mr. Kemp will oversee the firm's relationships with its investors and lead its business development efforts related to fundraising. This is a new position at Snow Phipps.
Ian Snow, CEO and Partner of Snow Phipps Group, said "We are pleased to welcome Phil to the Snow Phipps team. I have respected his character and talents, as well as his extensive investor relationships and experience within the private equity industry, since we worked together at Ripplewood Holdings in the mid-2000s, and I am excited that we will have another chance to partner together."
Mr. Kemp noted, "I have watched Snow Phipps grow and develop its business since Ian and Ogden founded the firm in 2005, and I am thrilled to join the Snow Phipps team. I look forward to working together to continue the firm's success and expand its capital base and limited partner relationships."
Mr. Kemp has worked in private equity investor relations and fundraising for the past 17 years. He joins Snow Phipps from Waud Capital Partners, where was Principal – Investor Relations. His prior roles included Ripplewood Holdings and Doughty Hanson as well as the private equity funds placement group at Jefferies. Earlier, he was a Partner with Greenwich Associates, the financial services consulting firm. Mr. Kemp began his career in investment banking, including 14 years with Salomon Brothers Inc. He holds an A.B. in Economics from Harvard College and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
About Snow Phipps Group
Snow Phipps is a private equity firm focused on middle-market control investments. With $2.4 billion of assets currently under management, Snow Phipps targets platform companies with enterprise values ranging from $100 million to $500 million. The firm utilizes an operating partner model to invest across the industrials, services and consumer industries and seek value creation through an operationally focused strategy. To learn more about Snow Phipps, visit www.snowphipps.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/philip-s-kemp-jr-joins-snow-phipps-group-as-head-of-investor-relations-300590887.html
SOURCE Snow Phipps Group