0 COMMENTS Good morning. While most of the conversation at the CES tech trade show in Vegas this week is likely to be dominated by gripes about the abysmal wet weather, there’s plenty of marketing programming between the puddles. Away from the official schedule, Twitter CMO Leslie Berland is hosting an all-female panel Wednesday dubbed #HereWeAre. “There’s been a lot of discussion about the lack of women keynotes at CES. Well guess what? We’ve got six!,” Ms. Berland tweeted earlier this week. Check out this article from Forbes for more about how marketers have been wielding their influence to promote more diversity at the event.
Number of the Day As a public company, Snap releases lots of numbers each quarter. But here’s “the data Snapchat doesn’t want you to see,” courtesy of the Daily Beast’s Taylor Lorenz, who got her hands on “five months of DAU [daily active user] metrics for nearly every feature in the app.” Content in the Discover section, for instance, is reportedly consumed by an average of 20% of Snapchat’s 178 million DAUs each day. Is that a good number? It’s hard to tell without an apples-to-apples comparison with another platform. But on the surface, that doesn’t seem terrible, considering it’s a daily, global number that appears to be ticking upward. A more-concerning stat relates to Snap Stories: The number of users posting Stories each day has shown barely any growth, according to the report, which could be troublesome from an ad load perspective. The leaked figures also suggest usage of Snap Maps, the new feature released in June that some observers think could grow into a powerful location-based ads tool , is on the wane. Those stats might explain why Snapchat’s new redesign brings the Maps and Stories to more-prominent sections within the app.
—Bonus—
Be sure to peruse the 37 charts at the bottom of the Daily Beast article for data on daily usage and views for Snap’s sponsored Geofilters and Lenses.
Hit Subscribe CMO Today’s Suzanne Vranica reports : Fresh off its wins at the Golden Globes, Hulu disclosed Tuesday that it has more than 17 million U.S. subscribers for its on-demand and live TV packages, more than a 40% increase since the spring of 2016. The streaming service also said it had $1 billion in ad revenue for 2017, the first time it hit that mark. The milestone caps a banner year in which Hulu won its first Emmy for best drama with “The Handmaid’s Tale” and launched a new live TV service. Industry observers are watching Hulu’s performance closely, as it may play a key role in Disney’s attempt to challenge Netflix as traditional pay TV comes under pressure. If Disney closes its $52.4 billion deal to buy a significant portion of 21st Century Fox’s assets, Disney will become the majority owner of Hulu with a 60% stake. Taking on Netflix won’t be a small task. As of September, the streaming company had 51 million paid subscribers in the U.S.
Groupthink If you’re a casual Facebook user, you might sometimes be surprised by the number of notifications that greet you on your return. Often, those notifications come from the Groups you are a member of as Facebook, fresh from overhauling its mission from making the world more open and connected to bringing the world closer together, has placed more emphasis on communities. Publishers, known for leaning into Facebook’s whims faster than you can say “algorithm tweak,” are quickly following suit and working to develop their own Groups , Digiday reports. While the monetization options aren’t as obvious within Groups as they are elsewhere on Facebook, this area of the platform offers publishers an opportunity to link to articles on their own sites and have conversations with their audience about the biggest stories of the day. And it makes sense at a time when Facebook is actively pushing users toward Groups via their notifications and more than 1 billion people are using Groups each month. Until Facebook moves on to the next thing.
I Can Pee Clearly Now Sorry for bringing down the tone of this reputable newsletter, but when you gotta go, you gotta go. Adweek’s most-read story this morning is about a magazine ad designed for you to pee on . No, we haven’t suddenly time-traveled to April 1—it’s the latest ad from the creative and often-wacky marketers at IKEA and the furniture retailer’s Swedish agency, Åkestam Holst. The ad, which will run in Swedish women’s magazine Amelia, contains a pregnancy test strip. If a pregnant woman decides to pee on the marked area, it’ll reveal a discount for the advertised baby crib. Long live print advertising! Although my heart goes out to the poor cashiers that have to convert the pee-soaked magazines into crib discounts.
Best of the rest Facebook reportedly is working on a video chat device currently named “Portal” that it plans to unveil at its annual developer conference in May and begin shipping in the second half of the year. [ Cheddar ]
You’re going to be hearing a lot more about blockchain in 2018, so here’s a handy glossary of all the blockchain-related terms marketers need to brush up on. [ Martech Today ]
YouTube says it is looking into “further consequences” for Logan Paul, the vlogger who posted a video from Japan’s so-called suicide forest that appeared to show a suicide victim. “We know that the actions of one creator can affect the entire community, so we’ll have more to share soon on steps we’re taking to ensure a video like this is never circulated again,” YouTube said in a tweeted statement. [ CNN ]
Sue Kroll is stepping down as the president of worldwide marketing and distribution at Warner Bros. to become a producer. Amid a wider reorganization designed to bring film and home entertainment marketing closer together, Toby Emmerich has been named chairman of the Warner Bros. Pictures Group and will have full oversight of world-wide theatrical production, marketing and distribution. [ Hollywood Reporter ]
Steve Bannon has resigned from his post as executive chairman of Breitbart News. Sirius XM also ended its relationship with Mr. Bannon. [ New York Times ]
Fox Sports is partnering with Twitter to stream a live show and with Snapchat to showcase match-day highlights of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Fox Sports owner 21st Century Fox and The Wall Street Journal parent News Corp share common ownership. [ Reuters ]
NBC and State Farm have formed an ad partnership that will see the insurer run commercials designed by the network that will make use of the flashback and flash-forward format from “This Is Us.” Members of the drama’s cast will provide voice-overs for the ads. [ Variety ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com