DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jackson Lewis P.C. , one of the country’s preeminent workplace law firms, is pleased to announce Megan Holstein has joined the firm’s Denver office as Principal. Ms. Holstein joins the firm from ReedGroup, where she was the Vice President of Compliance. Her work focuses on the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and their state law equivalents as well as disability and family leave benefits, including ERISA as it pertains to short- and long-term disability plans.
“Megan’s extensive experience with leave-related issues make her an immediate asset to our Disability, Leave and Health Management Practice Group as we continue to expand our offerings to employers,” said Practice Group Leader Francis Alvarez . “Megan’s experience is unique and incredibly valuable to our clients. Helping employers operationalize increasingly challenging state and local leave requirements, and integrating them with voluntary benefit programs, is where all the action is in this practice space.” Alvarez added, “Megan further differentiates our offerings, is an integral part of our group’s growth strategy, and we are delighted to welcome her to our team.”
“Megan is a phenomenal attorney with an outstanding reputation in the Denver business community,” added Ryan P. Lessmann , Denver Office Managing Principal. “Her arrival significantly strengthens our capabilities both locally and nationally, and will assist our clients across a range of industries as they continue to face increasingly complex compliance regulations.”
Ms. Holstein’s experience in employment law and leave of absence compliance includes serving as in-house counsel with two publicly traded companies and running her own consulting and law firm, where she provided legal counsel regarding all employment matters, conducted compliance audits, training, and workplace investigations. Prior to her in-house counsel position and consulting firm, Ms. Holstein was in private practice where she represented clients in state and federal courts and agency proceedings in all areas of employment law.
Ms. Holstein is admitted to practice in Colorado and New York. She volunteers her time at Peak to Peak Charter School, a nationally ranked top-100 school, where she has served as a board member and board president as well as a member of the following committees: curriculum, accountability, and hiring and organizational development. Ms. Holstein is a former planning commissioner for the Town of Erie, Colorado and an Adjunct Professor in Employee Benefits Law at the University of Colorado School of Law.
Ms. Holstein received her J.D. from the University of Colorado School of Law and her B.A. from the University of Illinois at Chicago, where she graduated with highest honors and received Phi Beta Kappa.
Jackson Lewis’ Denver office can be reached at (303) 892-0404.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006244/en/
Jackson Lewis P.C.
Lara Hamm
Director of Communications and Public Relations
267-319-7803
Lara.Hamm@jacksonlewis.com
Source: Jackson Lewis P.C.