SUNNYVALE, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Appvance.ai announced today that Kevin Kern has joined their Board of Directors. He brings deep experience in enterprise software sales and leadership, based on his active board positions at other enterprise software companies, following a distinguished career as a software CEO and sales executive.
In particular, Mr. Kern is also a board member of iWave Information Systems, WaterSmart Software, and GoWall. Previously, he held senior leadership positions with Innotas, a leading provider of Project Portfolio, Application Portfolio and Agile Portfolio Management, including serving as CEO from 2010 through 2016. Mr. Kern also spent 13 years in sales and sales management with Oracle.
"Software test automation has been around for three decades and yet has failed to make a dent in the crippling labor intensity of software testing," commented Kevin Kern, "I'm allying with Kevin Surace and the Appvance.ai team because that's a market ripe for disruption, and the AI-driven Appvance IQ is the right system to disrupt it."
Kevin Surace, cofounder and CEO of Appvance.ai, commented: "I'm thrilled to have an enterprise software leader of Kevin Kern's stature on our Board of Directors. We are delivering transformational productivity benefits to the $80 billion software quality assurance world, and his insights are going to help us do it faster."
About Appvance.ai
Appvance.ai is the leader in AI-driven test generation, which is revolutionizing how software testing is performed. The company's premier product is Appvance IQ, the world's first AI-driven, unified test automation system. It helps enterprises improve the quality, performance and security of their applications, while transforming the efficiency and output of testing teams.
Appvance.ai is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, with offices in Costa Rica and India. Investors in the company include Javelin Ventures, Staenberg Ventures, Social Internet Fund, FundersClub, Three Bridges Ventures and HB Asset Management.
Learn more at Appvance.ai .
Media Contact:
David Hurwitz
188772@email4pr.com
650-743-9788
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kevin-kern-joins-appvanceai-board-of-directors-300582679.html
SOURCE Appvance.ai