OMAHA, Neb.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Strawhecker Group (TSG) is pleased to announce its role as exclusive payments industry consultant to Corporate Finance Associates (CFA), in support of Shift4’s Acquisition by Lighthouse Network.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005468/en/
The Strawhecker Group Advises CFA in Shift4's Acquisition by Lighthouse Network (Graphic: TSG)
CFA is a leading middle-market mergers and acquisitions firm that acted as the exclusive financial advisor to Shift4 in the recently announced deal.
Shift4, established in 1994 by the Oder family, is headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. Shift4 is a leading developer of enterprise payment solutions that provide powerful, Web-based applications allowing merchants to convert credit, debit, check and gift card transactions into dollars in the bank quickly, accurately, and securely. Shift4's DOLLARS ON THE NET ® solution provides merchants in virtually every industry with real-time electronic payment authorization, auditing, reporting, and settlements. Shift4 is the premier payment gateway serving the lodging, hospitality and restaurant industries. Shift4’s patented tokenization technology provides the most secure payment network on the market today.
Lighthouse Network (LN), is a leading financial technology organization, powering the top POS brands in the hospitality and retail sectors and has proudly served more than 400,000 merchants in its collective 18-year history. LN is comprised of four separate companies: Harbortouch, a leading point-of-sale technology company and pioneer of the POS-as-a-service business model, having served more than 330,000 merchants since 1999; Restaurant Manager, a designer of point-of-sale software for the foodservice industry since 1987; Future POS, a seller of premium point-of-sale software for the restaurant and hospitality markets founded in 1998, and; POSitouch, a provider of turn-key, point of sale solutions since 1985.
Transaction Information
On November 30, 2017, Shift4 was acquired by Lighthouse Network in a private transaction. The terms were not disclosed. Financial representation was provided by the Omaha Office of Corporate Finance Associates, led by Jim Zipursky. “We were honored to work with the Oder family as they looked to find the right acquirer for Shift4, the company they founded and built into the premier payment gateway. Under the leadership of Jared Isaacman, Lighthouse Network and Shift4 are certain to be the leader in the electronic payments/financial technology industry,” said Mr. Zipursky when asked about the transaction. TSG, the leading expert in the electronic payments industry, provided CFA with industry consulting in the transaction.
“The sale of Shift4 highlights a key example of TSG’s expertise. Our firm has its pulse on leading payment offerings and recognized the synergies between Shift4 and Lighthouse Network, especially from a technology perspective,” added Jamie Savant, Co-Founder and Partner at TSG.
TSG has a proven track record in the transaction advisory space, having completed more than 200 valuations on payments companies in the last decade. Additionally, TSG has provided transaction support to firms that have ranged in scale from $3M to $3B+ in transaction assessed value - see recent deals .
About TSG
The Strawhecker Group (TSG) is a fast-growing analytics and consulting firm focused on the electronic payments industry. The company serves the entire payments ecosystem, from fintech startups to Fortune 500 companies. The firm provides its clients with advisory services, research and analytics to help them plan and execute their strategic initiatives. Based in Omaha, a recognized payments industry hub, TSG is an established leader in this high-growth, ever-evolving space. For more information please visit www.TheStrawGroup.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005468/en/
The Strawhecker Group
Andrew Nuss, +1 402-964-2617
Fax: +1 402-939-0093
www.TheStrawGroup.com
Source: The Strawhecker Group