24-Year Industry Veteran to Lead Missouri Operations
ATLANTA, GA, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Meridian Waste Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ: MRDN ) (“Meridian” or the “Company”), an integrated, non-hazardous solid waste services and innovative technology company, is pleased to name Scott Bradshaw as area president overseeing the company’s Missouri operations including three hauling companies and one landfill.
Bradshaw has 24 years of waste industry experience most recently serving as general manager for Advanced Disposal leading their Indiana operations. His team will include former owners Chuck Barcom, who will assume the role of area municipal and business development manager and Patrick McLaughlin, who will serve as area sales manager.
“Scott has proven to be an outstanding leader in our industry with an unwavering commitment to safety and creating a culture of trust and accountability,” said Walter “Wally” Hall, COO of Meridian Waste. “We believe wholeheartedly that we have the right team in place in Missouri to provide high quality service to the communities we serve currently and plan to serve in the future.”
Bradshaw was most recently responsible for the operations, employees and financials for two hauling locations, one transfer station and one landfill in Southern Indiana and Northwest Kentucky. He holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Kentucky in environmental geology.
About Meridian Waste Solutions, Inc.
Meridian Waste Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ: MRDN ) is a company defined by our commitment to servicing our customers with unwavering respect, fairness and care. We are focused on finding and implementing solutions for the resource needs and challenges of our customers with a fundamental objective to seek rewarding environmental solutions through technology and innovation. Our core waste business is centered on residential and commercial waste collection and disposal. Currently, the company operates in St. Louis, Missouri and Richmond, Virginia servicing over 130,000 residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. In addition to a fleet of commercial, residential and roll off trucks, the Company operates three transfer stations, one recycling facility and three municipal solid waste landfills. The technology division centers on creating community-based synergies through healthcare collaborations and software solutions. Our innovation division ( http://attisinnovations.com ) strives to create value from recovered resources, through advanced byproduct technologies and assets found in downstream production. For more information, visit www.MWSinc.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, among other thing, statements regarding the offering, the expected gross proceeds, the expected use of proceeds and the expected closing of the offering. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations, but are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to the Company's ability to develop, market and sell products based on its technology; the expected benefits and efficacy of the Company's products and technology; the availability of substantial additional funding for the Company to continue its operations and to conduct research and development, clinical studies and future product commercialization; and, the Company's business, research, product development, regulatory approval, marketing and distribution plans and strategies. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC, including, our current reports on Form 8-K.
Media and Investors Contact: Hayden IR ir@meridianwastesolutions.com (917) 658-7878
Source:Meridian Waste Solutions, Inc