1 COMMENTS Good morning. Do make sure you make time on your Friday wind-down to read this equal-parts-intriguing, equal-parts-bizarre feature on what it’s like to be an Instagram mom whose full-time job is posting videos and photos of your 3-year-old daughter to her 3 million adoring fans. Katie Stauffer, mother of Mila, says she earns more money than her husband, who is a doctor, thanks to the sponsorships her sassy toddler can pull in.
This Is Odd Super Bowl broadcasters often use the post-game scheduling spot as a launchpad to premiere a series. Audiences are big and ad rates go for around double the cost of a standard airing, David Campanelli, Horizon Media’s executive vice president and managing partner of video investment, tells me. So why is NBC airing an episode of its teary breakout drama “This Is Us” right after the Super Bowl and not something new? After football, “This Is Us” was already the most expensive show on TV for advertisers last year, according to Ad Age’s annual pricing survey . Mr. Campanelli thinks the decision was about giving “This Is Us” an ever bigger lift, “or at least solidifying its viewership overall.” The scheduling decision may also have come down to NBC not having a newer show worthy to justify that slot, so it was a safer bet to “protect their current crown jewel,” Mr. Campanelli said. The gamble doesn’t always pay off. Last year, Fox premiered “24: Legacy” in the post-Super Bowl spot, which performed well on the night, but viewership ended up tanking throughout the year and the show was canceled after one season.
—Set Your DVR—
Here’s what’s aired in the past five post-Super Bowl slots and how much the ratings rose from the show’s average audience that season (with thanks to Horizon Media for the data).
2017 (Fox): “24: Legacy” - 272%
2016 (CBS): “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” - 433%
2015 (NBC): “Blacklist” - 95%
2014 (Fox): “New Girl” - 497%
2013 (CBS): “Elementary” - 121%
I Wanna Be on the Cover of Forbes Magazine, Smilin’ Next to Oprah and the Queen Forbes celebrated its 100th anniversary last year, so what does 2018 have in store? I met with Forbes Media CEO Mike Federle this week to find out what we can expect to see from the publisher this year. Forbes, one of the purveyors of digital branded content when it launched BrandVoice in 2010, is following in the footsteps of other publishers such as the New York Times and Vice by building its own branded content studio: The Highlands at Forbes. It brings together several different groups under one working team to develop customized content for marketers. “We’d never formally called it a studio. This allows us to bring to market new ideas and solutions and advertisers—we had been doing it, but doing it in disparate pieces,” Mr. Federle said. In other efforts, Forbes’s video team has created two pilot shows as the publisher attempts to make its first foray into licensing scripted programming to traditional TV networks. Mr. Federle, who I met in London, also said Forbes is looking to acquire a small media company in Europe to help build its international editorial presence.
This Is How You Remind Me of What I Really Am “Reminder ads” is a much sweeter name than “retargeting.” The ad tech industry could really do with some branding advice sometimes. Anyhoo, “reminder ads” are the focus of a new update to Google’s ad settings , announced Thursday. The new control allows users to visit their ad settings to mute “reminder ads”—when you look at a pair of shoes on a company’s website and those shoes follow you around the web with ads reminding you to return to the site—across their devices. Additionally, Google is bringing the “mute this ad” function—accessed via the little “X” that appears on the top-right corner of an ad—to more apps and websites, the company said. The tool will also recognize the decision users make across any devices where they’re logged into a Google account. The moves should help Google serve more relevant ads and give users the feeling of being in control over the types of ads they see.
Beme Me Up, Zucky When CNN acquired YouTube star Casey Neistat’s video-sharing app Beme for $25 million in 2016, it was expected to become a major part of the network’s digital operations and serve as the blueprint for how old media could engage with young people. But only 14 months later, Beme is effectively shutting down and folding into the rest of CNN , and Mr. Neistat and his Beme co-founder Matt Hackett are exiting CNN, BuzzFeed’s Steven Perlberg reported. Mr. Neistat was frank about what went wrong, saying in an interview that he couldn’t work out a strategy for Beme News. It’s quite the stand-down from when Jeff Zucker was parading Mr. Neistat to marketers in Cannes only last June. And the decision comes shortly after CNN pulled its Snapchat show after failing to build a clear path to make money from it. Still, CNN Digital chief Andrew Morse told CMO Today he’d do it all over again : “You have to be willing to take swings in a media environment that’s changing as fast as this.” Mr. Zucker, by the way, said Thursday he *is* staying at CNN— dismissing reports suggesting he is plotting a move to ESPN .
Best of the rest The NFL’s ratings woes have finally hit networks’ ad business. Advertising revenue from in-game NFL programming declined 1.2% to $2.42 billion during the 2017 regular season, according to Standard Media Index. [ CMO Today ]
The story of Outcome Health, the advertising company that raised nearly $500 million in a funding round in May, whose investors are now suing it for fraud. [ WSJ ]
Trump Hotels, CNN and Fox News are the three most polarizing brands in the U.S., in that order, according to a survey of more than 300,000 Democrats and Republicans by Morning Consult. [ Morning Consult ]
Twitter is reportedly working on a tool that will make it easier to share video on the platform. The news appeared to send Snap shares down on Thursday. [ Bloomberg ]
A profile of Axios, Mike Allen and Jim VandeHei’s buzzy media startup that’s making waves in Washington and beyond. [ BuzzFeed News ]
ESPN is exploring the sale of Nate Silver’s FiveThirtyEight. [ The Big Lead ]
WWE CEO Vince McMahon has announced plans to bring the pro-football league XFL back in 2020. Mr. McMahon said he is initially focused on partnering with digital platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. [ Digiday ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com