More Sleep Tools Mean More Ways Marpac Can Help Consumers Give Sleep a Chance
WILMINGTON, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Marpac, LLC, the company that created the white noise machine market wants to help everyone “Give Sleep a Chance” by expanding its sleep product offerings. Today it announced the purchase of Yogabed™, an innovator in the direct-to-consumer mattress industry.
Marpac will add Yogabed mattress products and accessories to its lineup of half a dozen sound machines: the Marpac Dohm Classic, the Marpac Dohm Elite and portable sound machines, the Marpac Hushh and Marpac Rohm. In early 2018 Marpac will fully launch an expanded “Tools for Sleep” product mix. The acquisition was finalized in late December.
“Marpac and Yogabed enjoy tremendous product and company ratings because of shared values in quality, customer service and people-first cultures,” said Jimmy Sloan co-owner of Marpac. “Adding Yogabed mattresses and accessories to our sleep product portfolio will help us achieve our exponential growth plans.”
Marpac is committed to a seamless transition for Marpac Yogabed customers, including an unchanged customer service team. Yogabed warranties, return policies, deals and 101-night trial periods will remain in place.
Terms of the acquisition between the two private entities are undisclosed.
About Marpac
Marpac, based in Wilmington, N.C., is a sleep products brand. It was founded in 1962 with the creation of the original white noise machine. Over the decades it has grown by providing quality sleep and privacy products and the highest levels of customer service. Marpac sound machines include the Marpac Dohm Classic, Marpac Dohm Elite and portable sound machines, the Marpac Hushh and Marpac Rohm among other specialty and commercial devices. They can be found in retail, both brick and mortar and online, nationwide and internationally. Marpac Yogabed mattresses and bedding accessories are currently sold direct to consumer at Yogabed.com . For more information about Marpac, please visit Marpac.com . Give Sleep a Chance!
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005543/en/
Marpac
Steve Cummings, 804-380-9928
steve@marpac.com
Source: Marpac, LLC