MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Nerdery today announced the addition of Arpit Jain to its executive team as Vice President of Delivery. Jain has more than a decade of experience leading the delivery of complex digital engagements for B2B and B2C companies in retail, automotive and healthcare industries. As VP of Delivery, Jain will further The Nerdery’s ongoing evolution as strategic digital consultants to better meet the needs of its clients.
Jain has more than a decade of experience leading the delivery of complex digital engagements for B2B and B2C companies in retail, automotive and healthcare industries. His responsibilities will include client delivery of Nerdery services, and building relationships through strategy and planning.
“As we plan for a successful 2018, I couldn’t be more excited about Arpit joining our team,” said Adrian Slobin, The Nerdery’s Chief Strategy and Operating Officer. “Arpit’s strengths include leading the delivery of high-quality, high-value work, building great teams, and mentoring and growing people. His impact will be invaluable.”
Jain’s responsibilities will include client delivery of Nerdery services, supporting the Client Growth and Business Development team in building relationships through strategy and planning, and contributing to a culture of customer obsession.
“In this era of fast-evolving customer expectations and business needs, we need to have value delivered for our clients at a brisk speed, and more importantly, at scale.” said Jain. “My passion is to help clients grow through the power of digital. I see that same passion at The Nerdery, along with skills and nimbleness to help achieve our clients' business goals and ambitions.”
Prior to joining The Nerdery, Jain spent 12 years at SapientRazorfish (formerly SapientNitro) where he helped shape the digital future for brands — including one of the largest retailers in the Twin Cities, a leading medical technology company and a marquee automotive company — by delivering engagements of all sizes through his business and technical expertise. Jain is passionate about creating better ways of working, leading large multidisciplinary teams, executing change at scale, and immersing himself in clients’ businesses to deliver real value.
Today’s hiring announcement furthers The Nerdery’s ongoing transformation towards a strategic, technology- and experience-led consultancy that includes the disruption of Nerdery legacy processes as well as the addition of Adrian Slobin as Chief Strategy and Operating Officer and RJ Nicolosi as President .
About The Nerdery
The Nerdery is a digital consultancy of software engineers, strategists, designers and problem solvers who create digital products and services that better people’s lives and drive business outcomes. With offices in Minneapolis, Chicago, Kansas City and Phoenix, The Nerdery’s core services are mobile applications, web applications, websites, systems integration and digital consulting.
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/cbd96bfe-57b9-42dc-92dc-b4d46ffc618e
Mark Malmberg 612-850-3178 mark.malmberg@nerdery.com
Source: Nerdery Foundation Launches NerdKind