HERTFORDSHIRE, England and PITTSBURGH, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Global pharmaceutical leader Mylan N.V. (NASDAQ, TASE: MYL) today announced that it is completing its previously-approved $1 billion share repurchase plan.
Mylan's Chairman Robert J. Coury commented, "We are very pleased to announce that Mylan is completing the $1 billion share repurchase plan previously approved by the Mylan N.V. Board of Directors. This return of capital to our shareholders comes at a time of positive momentum for Mylan, with the recent launches and approvals of several key products, our strong future growth expectations, and our belief that the diversified and unique platform we have built is substantially undervalued.
"In addition and pursuant to its agreement with Abbott related to the Abbott EPD acquisition, Mylan has received notification from Abbott that it has sold its remaining 20.3 million shares of Mylan prior to year-end, removing a potential share overhang and consistent with Abbott's stated position that it did not intend to be a long-term shareholder."
Coury continued, "Following our 2017 Annual General Meeting, we initiated an extensive outreach program to better understand shareholders' perspectives and increase their awareness of and appreciation for the unmatched strength and breadth of Mylan's global platform. We are committed to continuing our dialogue with shareholders and the larger investor community in an effort to continue to optimize Mylan's valuation."
Mylan CFO Ken Parks added, "Our continued strong adjusted free cash flow generation, even after taking into account the completion of our $1 billion share buy-back program, allows us to continue to execute on our business strategies, while effectively deploying our capital and maintaining our commitment to an investment grade credit rating."
This press release includes statements that constitute "forward-looking statements," including with regard to: Mylan completing its $1 billion share repurchase plan; this return of capital to our shareholders coming at a time of positive momentum for Mylan, with the recent launches and approvals of several key products, our strong future growth expectations, and our belief that the diversified and unique platform we have built is substantially undervalued; that Mylan is committed to continuing its dialogue with shareholders and the larger investor community in an effort to continue to optimize Mylan's valuation; and that Mylan's continued strong adjusted free cash flow generation, even after taking into account the completion of our $1 billion share buy-back program, allows us to continue to execute on our business strategies, while effectively deploying our capital and maintaining our commitment to an investment grade credit rating. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: success of clinical trials and our or our partners' ability to execute on new product opportunities; any regulatory, legal or other impediments to our or our partners' ability to bring products to market; other risks inherent in product development; the scope, timing, and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on our or our partners' businesses; actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators, and changes in healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations, in the United States and abroad; the impact of competition; strategies by competitors or other third parties to delay or prevent product introductions; the effect of any changes in our or our partners' customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; any other changes in third-party relationships; changes in the economic and financial conditions of the businesses of Mylan or its partners; uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management; and the other risks detailed in Mylan's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mylan undertakes no obligation to update these statements for revisions or changes after the date of this release.
About Mylan
Mylan is a global pharmaceutical company committed to setting new standards in healthcare. Working together around the world to provide 7 billion people access to high quality medicine, we innovate to satisfy unmet needs; make reliability and service excellence a habit; do what's right, not what's easy; and impact the future through passionate global leadership. We offer a growing portfolio of more than 7,500 marketed products around the world, including antiretroviral therapies on which more than 40% of people being treated for HIV/AIDS globally depend. We market our products in more than 165 countries and territories. We are one of the world's largest producers of active pharmaceutical ingredients. Every member of our more than 35,000-strong workforce is dedicated to creating better health for a better world, one person at a time. Learn more at Mylan.com . We routinely post information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.mylan.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mylan-to-complete-1-billion-share-repurchase-plan-300578694.html
SOURCE Mylan N.V.