Former Eli Lilly, Bausch & Lomb and Janssen Executive Leads Clinical Division
VANCOUVER, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - Phivida Holdings Inc. (CSE:VIDA), (OTCMKTS:PHVAF) has appointed healthcare veteran Mr. Richard Greatrex as The Company's Vice President of Clinical Education. Mr. Greatrex will assume his new executive role as of February 1 st , 2018 and immediately activate a global healthcare educational strategy to onboard and manage a significant back log of new clinic account prospects and continue to drive market share growth in fiscal 2018.
Mr. Greatrex is a business development professional with a proven track record in healthcare and finance. His executive sales experience includes regional management at Eli Lilly, Bausch & Lomb, Allergan and Janssen. His career in the pharmaceutical sector has focused primarily on chronic pain and inflammatory based conditions.
Mr. Greatrex will work closely with the Clinical Advisory Team to drive new growth through continued medical education activities and strengthen key relationships with health care practitioner accounts. Ensuring a strong presence in these markets will be a major focus of the organization as Phivida captures a leadership share in 2018.
Phivida is dedicated to educating health care practitioners on effective ways of incorporating cannabinoid therapeutics into their licensed clinical practice. As VP of Clinical Education, Mr. Greatrex will be responsible for equipping and empowering doctors with the scientific information they need to confidently add Phivida's CBD products into their clinical practice, administer CBD into their patient treatment strategies, and share their experiences with their fellow healthcare practitioners. Mr. Greatrex will also focus on the continued launch of the Vida+ line of clinical grade cannabidiol products across the Pacific USA and within the global medical community.
"Phivida is taking the right approach by focusing on community, education and sponsorship. I am thrilled to provide educational information and tools to the practitioners who need it most. As the WHO and WADA reports confirmed, cannabinoid treatment has a real place in clinical practice. This evidence is supported by thousands of clinical trials on www.pubmed.gov in which cannabidiol has shown positive outcomes in the treatment of debilitating inflammation-based disorders and diseases. I believe CBD will continue to change the lives of patients around the world by offering an alternative to pain relief, without the potential carrying costs of negative side effects which is so often seen with opiate based pharmaceuticals. I am very proud to be a part of that effort."
Phivida Holdings Inc.
Phivida (pronounced "fi-VEE-da") is a premier brand of cannabidiol ("CBD") infused functional foods, beverages and clinical products - poised for global distribution. The World Anti-Doping Association's recent decision to lift its ban of CBD from hemp oil and the World Health Organization's recent statement supporting the clinical benefits of CBD open the door for patients, practitioners, professional athletes and active professionals to begin using Phivida products in their daily lives. Celebrating Health and Wellness in Harmony, Phivida's vision is to be a global leader in the alternative health sector while advancing education and research and investing back into the communities in which we operate.
Website www.phivida.com
Toll free +1 (844) 744-6646 (ext. #2)
Email IR@phivida.com
Phivida Holdings Inc. ©
SOURCE Phivida Holdings Inc.