RESTON, Va., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Serco Inc., a provider of professional, technology, and management services and subsidiary of Serco Group plc, announced today that Vice Admiral (VADM) Carol Pottenger, United States Navy (retired) has been appointed to the Board of its U.S. business. VADM Pottenger has a distinguished 36 year career with the Navy.
One of the first women selected for sea duty, VADM Pottenger served in leadership roles which included division officer, department head, executive officer and commanding officer on repair and combat support ships. She became the first female admiral to command an expeditionary strike group; in addition to overseeing a logistics force of 30 ships and the Navy's $3 billion Expeditionary Forces of 40,000 sailors. Her final assignment was with NATO, as the senior US Flag Officer responsible for military transformation and high visibility security issues such as counterterrorism and cyber.
"We are extremely pleased that Carol Pottenger has joined our board of directors. Her extensive knowledge of the U.S. Navy and established record of providing strategic direction will be valuable for Serco as we grow our defense market sector," said Dave Dacquino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Serco Inc. "Additionally, her expertise in business management, human capital development, and financial acumen will be utilized across Serco."
Currently, VADM Pottenger is principal and owner of CMP Global LLC and provides consulting services in business development, process improvement, corporate governance, strategic planning, and cyber and information systems. A graduate of Purdue University, she also serves on various defense, advisory, and non-profit boards including PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Board of Partners and Principals.
About Serco Inc.
Serco Inc. is a leading provider of professional, technology, and management services. We advise, design, integrate, and deliver solutions that transform how clients achieve their missions. Our customer-first approach, robust portfolio of services, and global experience enable us to respond with solutions that achieve outcomes with value. Headquartered in Reston, Virginia, Serco Inc. has approximately 8,000 employees and annual revenue of $1 billion. Serco Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Serco Group plc, a $5 billion international business that helps transform government and public services around the world. More information about Serco Inc. can be found at www.serco-na.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/carol-pottenger-appointed-to-serco-inc-board-of-directors-300581415.html
SOURCE Serco Inc.