SKOKIE, Ill., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The AZEK Company, the industry-leading manufacturer of beautiful, low-maintenance residential and commercial building products, has named Jon Skelly as the company's senior vice president of business development.
Skelly will design and deliver a comprehensive strategic plan for business development activities that align with The AZEK Company's objectives and growth plans.
"We are excited to have Jon on board to accelerate our company's growth in the year ahead," said Jesse Singh, CEO of The AZEK Company. "Jon's strong leadership will help us profitably grow our market share and our presence in the building products industry."
Skelly joins The AZEK Company from W. W. Grainger, where he was responsible for all global and domestic mergers and acquisitions as vice president of corporate development. Prior to W. W. Grainger, Skelly held a variety of leadership positions, including managing director for Vetus Partners, director of strategic business development for The Home Depot and director of mergers and acquisitions and strategy for Hughes Supply, Inc.
"I look forward to working with Jesse and his executive team to build on the success of The AZEK Company and find new avenues for growth," said Skelly. "There is no better time to be joining a company with so much momentum and excitement around its current and future offerings to customers."
About The AZEK Company
The AZEK Company LLC is an industry-leading manufacturer of beautiful, low-maintenance residential and commercial building products, committed to innovation, sustainability and research and design. Headquartered in Skokie, IL, in the greater Chicago area, the company also operates highly automated manufacturing facilities in Scranton, PA, and Wilmington, OH. The company's products are marketed under several brands, including AZEK® and TimberTech® for residential building materials, Scranton Products for commercial building materials, and Vycom for industrial building materials. For additional information, visit azekco.com .
Press Contact:
Kelly Harbaugh
Edelman
(312) 240-2897
kelly.harbaugh@edelman.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jon-skelly-joins-the-azek-company-as-senior-vice-president-of-business-development-300586305.html
SOURCE The AZEK Company