SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Both Ends Believing is pleased to announce that Frank Garrott has joined the operating team as chief operating officer.
Having served as president and chief executive officer for the Gladney Center for Adoption for the past ten years, Garrott brings a wealth of experience in the field of international adoption and orphan care. Prior to joining Gladney, Garrott enjoyed a 29-year career in financial services in Dallas and New York, where he worked extensively in cross-cultural environments. Garrott has served on the boards of five non-profit organizations focused on child welfare, including the board of Both Ends Believing since 2011.
"The first time I set foot in an orphanage I was overwhelmed with sadness and even anger at the injustice of witnessing so many children fighting just to survive another day while dreaming of the possibility of becoming a member of a loving family," said Garrott. "Both Ends Believing is at the forefront of raising global awareness of the orphan crisis and delivering pragmatic solutions. It is a privilege for me to be a part of the effort."
Garrott is joining the Both Ends Believing team at a pivotal moment in the organization's journey. The organization has successfully convened three global symposiums composed of delegates from over thirty countries and partnered with Tyler Technologies to develop and implement the Children First software program, which provides a technology solution for managing case records. Both Ends Believing is bringing new solutions and fresh perspective to one of the largest human rights crises of our time – tens of millions of orphaned children who need the love of families.
Mark Schwartz, president of Both Ends Believing, remarked, "Garrott will be a great addition to our team. He brings years of experience and leadership in the field of international child welfare and a passion to be a voice for vulnerable children worldwide."
Garrott and his wife Lynne live in Fort Worth, Texas, where they have five children and one grandchild. Garrott is a graduate of Duke University and received his MBA from the University of Texas at Austin.
About Both Ends Believing
Both Ends Believing was founded in January 2010 as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization to promote family-based outcomes for vulnerable children. Our primary goal is to minimize institutional care for at risk children and redirect these children into reunification with their family, foster or kinship care, or placement into domestic and international adoption programs.
Contact: Cheryl Bochner
Both Ends Believing
480-699-5161
Cheryl@Bothendsbelieving.org
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/child-advocacy-group-both-ends-believing-adds-chief-operating-officer-300586196.html
SOURCE Both Ends Believing