GREENWICH, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- W. R. Berkley Corporation (NYSE:WRB) today announced the appointment of David R. Lockhart as president of Gemini Transportation Underwriters (Gemini), a Berkley Company. Mr. Lockhart succeeds Rocco P. Modafferi, who has been named chairman of Gemini. The appointments are effective immediately.
Mr. Lockhart joined Gemini as a senior vice president in 2014 and was named executive vice president in 2017. He has 30 years of experience in the property casualty insurance industry in a broad range of domestic and international underwriting products and services. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Babson College as well as Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU), Associate in Insurance Accounting and Finance (AIAF), Associate in Commercial Underwriting (ACU) and Associate in Reinsurance (ARe) designations.
Mr. Modafferi joined Berkley as president of Gemini when it was formed in 2009 and has 40 years of experience in the property casualty insurance industry. In his role as chairman, he will work to ensure a seamless transition and remain a tactical advisor to the leadership team. In addition, Mr. Modafferi will manage a number of special projects for W. R. Berkley Corporation.
Commenting on the appointments, W. Robert Berkley, Jr., president and chief executive officer of W. R. Berkley Corporation, said, “Under Rocco’s expert leadership, Gemini has successfully navigated the complexities of the excess casualty market for the transportation industry, establishing a well-run and profitable business. We are fortunate to have a talented executive like Dave on our team with the knowledge and experience at Gemini to lead the company forward. We are grateful to both Rocco and Dave for their contributions to our organization and wish them the greatest success in their new roles.”
Gemini Transportation Underwriters is a leading provider of excess liability insurance for companies in the transportation industry. For further information about Gemini and the products and services it offers, please visit www.geminiunderwriters.com .
Celebrating 50 years, W. R. Berkley Corporation is an insurance holding company that is among the largest commercial lines writers in the United States and operates worldwide in two segments of the property casualty insurance business: Insurance and Reinsurance. For further information about W. R. Berkley Corporation, please visit www.wrberkley.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005725/en/
Karen A. Horvath, 203-629-3000
Vice President – External
Financial Communications
Source: W. R. Berkley Corporation