List recognizes companies for qualities such as innovation and diversity
CONWAY, Ark.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Acxiom ® (Nasdaq: ACXM), the data foundation for the world's best marketers, today announced that Great Place to Work and FORTUNE have recognized Acxiom as one of the 2018 Best Workplaces in Technology . The ranking considered more than 79,000 employee surveys from technology companies across the U.S. Great Place to Work, a research and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members’ experience on the job. These included communication, professional development, and recognition related to innovation. The ranking also accounted for the share of women, people of color, Baby Boomers and LGBT individuals experiencing innovation in the workplace. Acxiom took the No. 20 spot on the list.
“Acxiom is thrilled to be recognized by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE,” said Jerry Jones, Acxiom’s Executive Vice President. “People want to work in a vibrant, innovative, culturally diverse atmosphere that provides meaningful opportunities and rewards. This recognition by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE confirms we’re focused on the things that matter to our associates and that make it easy for them to recommend Acxiom to their family and friends.”
The Best Workplaces in Technology stand out for their leadership and innovation in the workplace. Winning companies scored 15 percent higher than non-winners on their ability to create a culture of innovation.
“The Best Workplaces in Technology know that innovation can’t be limited to just engineers or senior employees,” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “Creating opportunities where everyone experiences innovation in the workplace increases the sense of fairness, purpose, and confidence.”
The Best Workplaces in Technology is one of a series of rankings by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations.
About Acxiom
Acxiom provides the data foundation for the world's best marketers. We enable people-based marketing everywhere through a simple, open approach to connecting systems and data that drives seamless customer experiences and higher ROI. A leader in identity and ethical data use for more than 48 years, Acxiom helps thousands of clients and partners around the globe work together to create a world where all marketing is relevant. Acxiom is a registered trademark of Acxiom Corporation. For more information, visit Acxiom.com .
About the Best Workplaces in Technology
Great Place to Work based its ranking on a data-driven methodology applied to anonymous Trust Index™ survey responses from more than 79,000 employees at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations. To learn more about Great Place to Work Certification and recognition on Best Workplaces lists published with FORTUNE, visit Greatplacetowork.com .
About Great Place to Work
Great Place to Work is the global authority on high-trust, high-performance workplace cultures. Through its certification programs , Great Place to Work recognizes outstanding workplace cultures and produces the annual Fortune "100 Best Companies to Work For ® " and Great Place to Work Best Workplaces lists for Millennials, Women, Diversity, Small & Medium Companies, industries and, internationally, countries and regions. Through its culture consulting services , Great Place to Work helps clients create great workplaces that outpace peers on key business metrics like revenue growth, profitability, retention and stock performance.
Learn more at Greatplacetowork.com and on LinkedIn , Twitter , Facebook and Instagram .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005108/en/
Media
Alison Flood, Havas Formula for Acxiom
619-234-0345
acxiom@havasformula.com
Source: Acxiom