SANTA MONICA, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Dr. Jane Danford officially joins the Som Sleep Advisory Board. Danford is the CEO and Founder of Danford Works, a concierge physical therapy practice with multiple locations in New York City.
"In my experience, sleep is critical to a patient's rehabilitation and recovery, which is why I'm thrilled to join the Som Sleep Advisory Board," said Danford.
Danford and her team implement a uniquely customized and evidence-based approach to patient care, providing unparallelled rehabilitation and recovery. She graduated from Northeastern University with a doctorate in physical therapy, then completed a competitive 12-month orthopedic residency at New York University. Danford has travelled across the United States and around the world treating sports injuries of NCAA and professional athletes. She is also a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS), a master clinician for NYU doctorate students, and a published author in the orthopedic rehabilitation literature.
"We are so excited to bring Dr. Jane Danford onto the Som Sleep Advisory Board," said John Shegerian, the company's Co-founder and CEO. "Her unique experience offers tremendous insight into the importance of sleep in rehabilitation and best practices to maximize recovery."
In addition to being available on Som's website, Som is available for purchase through Amazon. The company plans to expand into additional distribution channels throughout 2018.
Som Sleep is an NSF Certified for Sport ready-to-drink sleep supplement available in both Original and Zero Sugar. The drug-free, non-habit forming formula is consumed 30 minutes before bed for better sleep. Som is available in a 4-pack, 12-pack, and 24-pack for both one-time purchase as well as recurring delivery online at www.getsom.com . Find Som on social media @getsomsleep.
Contact: For media inquiries, contact Lily Allyn Gordon at lily@getsom.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dr-jane-danford-joins-som-sleep-advisory-board-300590080.html
SOURCE Som Friends, Inc.