MCLEAN, Va., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WidePoint Corporation (NYSE American: WYY), a leading provider of Trusted Mobility Management (TM2) specializing in Telecommunications Lifecycle Management (TLM) and Cybersecurity solutions, announced today that Kito Mussa has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to this appointment, Mr. Mussa served as WidePoint's Vice President and Controller from January 2012 to October 2017 and then as the Interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2017 to December 2017. With over 17 years of experience as a financial executive, Mr. Mussa has overseen the financial operations at companies ranging from small privately-held start-ups to publicly traded corporations with multinational operations. Mr. Mussa brings a broad base of expertise in the areas of operational and financial restructuring, business development and contract negotiation, mergers and acquisitions, corporate tax, risk management and regulatory reporting and compliance.
Mr. Jin Kang, Chief Executive Officer of WidePoint, stated, "Kito has played a key role driving changes in business practices and financial operations throughout WidePoint. His insights and expertise will expand and improve the Company's financial systems, financial reporting, internal controls, contracting, human resources, tax and legal compliance and operational management. I am excited to formalize Kito's role as WidePoint's Chief Financial Officer."
Mr. Mussa, Chief Financial Officer of WidePoint, stated, "I am both honored by this appointment and excited about WidePoint's future. Under Jin's leadership, we are making significant changes to drive a leaner and more efficient business model. In my new role as CFO, I am committed to supporting our TM2 vision and implementing further changes in our business practices to increase growth within our existing customer base and within our target markets. Our TM2 framework and customer centric solutions enable our customers to securely manage their valuable assets efficiently, anywhere in today's connected world."
About WidePoint
WidePoint Corporation (NYSE American: WYY) is a leading provider of technology-based management solutions. For more information, visit www.widepoint.com
For More Information:
Brett Mass or Dave Fore
Hayden IR
(206) 395-2711
dave@hayddenir.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/widepoint-corporation-appoints-kito-mussa-chief-financial-officer-300580403.html
SOURCE WidePoint Corporation