HOUSTON, Jan. 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Oceaneering International, Inc. ("Oceaneering") (NYSE:OII) announced the promotion of Philip G. Beierl to Vice President, Advanced Technologies ("ADTECH"). Mr. Beierl has global responsibility for Oceaneering's ADTECH business segment, succeeding John R. Kreider, who has assumed the role of Senior Vice President, Growth Strategies, after more than 16 years leading our ADTECH business segment. These changes were effective January 1, 2018.
Rod Larson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Oceaneering, stated, "I am pleased to announce Phil's promotion. Phil is a proven leader with an impressive track record of successfully applying new technologies in multiple industries. I am confident that with Phil's leadership, supported by a strong management team, we will continue to provide our non-oilfield customers with exemplary service and technologies while we grow this promising segment of our business. In his new role, Phil will report to me."
Mr. Beierl's career includes more than 12 years with Oceaneering. He most recently served as Vice President, ADTECH Operations, and was previously Vice President and General Manager of Oceaneering Technologies since 2014. Prior to joining Oceaneering, Mr. Beierl retired from the United States Navy as Captain after a distinguished 25-year career.
In his new role as Senior Vice President, Growth Strategies, Mr. Kreider will be focused on developing Oceaneering as a leading integrator of mobile robotic systems for the mission critical needs of Oceaneering's customers across multiple industries. Mr. Kreider will continue to report to Mr. Larson.
Oceaneering is a global provider of engineered services and products, primarily to the offshore oil and gas industry, with a focus on deepwater applications. Through the use of its applied technology expertise, Oceaneering also serves the defense, entertainment, and aerospace industries.
For more information on Oceaneering, please visit www.oceaneering.com .
Contact:
Suzanne Spera
Director, Investor Relations
Oceaneering International, Inc.
713-329-4707
investorrelations@oceaneering.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oceaneering-promotes-philip-g-beierl-to-vice-president-advanced-technologies-300586082.html
SOURCE Oceaneering International, Inc.