DALLAS, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Almaz Woldeab, Chief Accounting Officer and Managing Director at Civitas Capital Group , has been named a winner of the Dallas Business Journal's 2018 Minority Business Leader awards.
Now in its 11th year, the Minority Business Leader Awards honor women and men throughout Dallas-Fort Worth for exceptional business and community leadership.
"I am very grateful for this honor," Woldeab said. "Diversity is a core value at Civitas. It's how we differentiate ourselves, and how we're able to meet the needs of our global investors. And personally, I believe strongly in working in minority communities to ensure that everyone has the education, skills, and support system they need to help them achieve their dreams. This award reflects that work, and for that I'm proud."
A native of Ethiopia, Almaz Woldeab came to the United States as a refugee in 1985 at the height of political turmoil and civil war in her home country. Prior to Civitas, she worked 12 years at Texas Instruments, Inc. She is on the Board of Directors for the Human Rights Initiative of North Texas, a Dallas-based nonprofit assisting survivors of violence from all over the world. She is also a fellow with the National African-American Women's Leadership Institute, a nonprofit leadership development organization that encourages African-American women to discover and maximize their leadership potential with a gender-based, culturally relevant program.
As well, Woldeab is a co-chair of EDIR, a committee for the Dallas-Fort Worth chapter of the Mutual Assistance Association for the Ethiopian Community, a nonprofit that provides services to Ethiopians and Ethiopian-Americans. She has helped assimilate more than two dozen refugees, family members, and neighbors abroad since she came to America.
Tracy Merzi, publisher of the DBJ, said in announcing the winners, "Our class of honorees represent the best of the best in North Texas."
Honorees will be recognized at a luncheon on Tuesday, February 20, at the Westin Galleria Dallas.
Civitas Capital Group is a unique alternative asset management firm. We focus on niche, differentiated opportunities in real estate, lodging, and alternative credit. Our rich expertise, analytical rigor, and cultural competency yield compelling investment strategies for global institutional investors, family offices, and qualified individuals through our Alternative Investments and EB-5 Capital divisions.
This press release does not constitute an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not authorized or to any person to whom it would be unlawful to make such offer or solicitation. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/civitas-managing-director-wins-2018-minority-business-leader-award-300577675.html
SOURCE Civitas Capital Group