LOS ANGELES, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lockton, the world's largest privately held independent insurance broker, has promoted Nate Mundy to senior vice president and chief operating officer of its Pacific operations in the US. Mundy succeeds Gary Petrosino, a 40-year industry veteran who is retiring.
"Nate is a respected leader and innovator who has a keen understanding of Lockton's value to clients," said Tim Noonan, CEO of Lockton's Pacific operations. "He embodies our values and culture, including our entrepreneurial mindset and performance-driven approach, which will help us drive continued growth in the Pacific Series."
Mundy has more than 13 years of experience with Lockton and most recently held the position of senior vice president of operations of the Pacific Series. He has served in various client service and business development support roles at Lockton, including as a member of the merger and acquisition team (PECAP) in New York. Mundy started his insurance career as a trainee with Jardine Lloyd Thompson (JLT) in London. He is a graduate of the University of Kansas.
"Gary Petrosino is a tremendous leader and an industry icon," adds Noonan. "He has served Lockton, our clients and the industry with integrity and distinction. We wish him and his wife Judy all the best as they begin their next chapter."
Petrosino joined Lockton as COO of the Pacific Series in 2016 after serving more than 35 years in underwriting and leadership roles at Chubb. He was executive vice president and western US field operations officer for Chubb when he joined Lockton.
Lockton's Pacific operation includes offices in Los Angeles, San Diego, Orange County, San Fernando Valley, San Francisco, Sacramento, Seattle and Portland. Lockton's 600 Pacific Associates serve a wide array of clients with advice and support on commercial insurance, employee benefits and retirement services.
About Lockton
Lockton is a global professional services firm with 6,500 Associates who advise clients on protecting their people, property and reputations. Lockton has grown to become the world's largest privately held, independent insurance broker by helping clients achieve their business objectives.
For nine consecutive years, Business Insurance magazine has recognized Lockton as a "Best Place to Work in Insurance."
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mundy-promoted-to-chief-operating-officer-of-locktons-pacific-operations-in-us-300582836.html
SOURCE Lockton