COLUMBIA, Md., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Maxim Healthcare Services, an established provider of home healthcare , healthcare staffing , personal caregiving services , behavioral care , and population health and wellness services , today announced the appointment of Kellie Lanier as Senior Vice President of Clinical Operations.
Lanier joined Maxim in 2007 as clinical supervisor for the Wilmington, North Carolina, office and has since held multiple leadership roles throughout the company. In her new role as part of the executive team, she will oversee all clinical strategies and initiatives across the organization. Lanier will partner closely with former Senior Vice President of Clinical Operations Cheryl Nelson as she transitions into a part-time role focused on project-based clinical initiatives.
Prior to joining Maxim, Lanier worked at the Coastal Rehabilitation Hospital in Wilmington as a certified nursing assistant, registered nurse and RN coordinator. Her responsibilities included creating and enhancing clinical pathways for spinal cord and brain injury patients, coordinating multidisciplinary team members, scheduling nursing and support staff, and providing direct patient care.
"Kellie is a leader and innovator who has helped shape a strong clinical roadmap at Maxim," said Bill Butz, Maxim CEO. "A champion for caregiver experience, she will be a strong leader for our clinical teams as we continue to deliver the highest level of care to patients across the country."
Lanier received her bachelor's degree in nursing from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington.
About Maxim Healthcare Services
Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. provides home healthcare, healthcare staffing, personal caregiving services, behavioral care, and population health and wellness services across the United States. Founded in 1988, Maxim is focused on delivering quality patient care and a commitment to employee development with an emphasis on customer service. Today, Maxim is an established partner in the healthcare industry and is constantly evolving to address the needs of our patients, caregivers, and clients. Our focus on quality patient care and compliance is the foundation for our success. Learn more about Maxim Healthcare Services , or get more information about available Maxim Healthcare positions .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/maxim-healthcare-services-appoints-new-clinical-leader-to-executive-team-300589277.html
SOURCE Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc.