AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- RVi Planning + Landscape Architecture, along with strategic equity partner Atwell, LLC, announced today that it is acquiring Tempe, AZ-based LVA Urban Design Studio. The acquisition furthers Atwell’s investment in RVi’s growth in the southwestern United States and enhances the firm’s client base and expertise.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006123/en/
Pictured left to right: Chris Crawford, Doug Craig, Mark Reddie, Steven Voss (Photo: Business Wire)
“RVi has a strong national reputation for high quality planning and landscape architectural design. LVA has been the leader in planning and entitlements in the Valley for decades. We are extremely excited to combine our design and planning expertise as we continue to grow our footprint in the Southwest,” RVi President Chris Crawford said.
Founded in 1981, LVA is led by Steven Voss, who will remain with the company as a Sr. Vice President and Managing Principal of the Arizona region. Steven is joined by Doug Craig of RVi, who will continue his role as Vice President and will lead the newly-combined firm’s Landscape Architecture practice, and Mark Reddie, Vice President, who will continue to manage the planning and entitlements practice.
“I am thrilled that we found such a great fit with RVi. Both firms have remarkable longevity in the marketplace and a healthy mixture of experienced senior leadership, strong project managers, and promising young talent. We also have a very like-minded approach to relationship building and client service,” Voss said.
RVi is a national firm with offices in Arizona, Texas, and Georgia. RVi Vice President Doug Craig has quickly grown the firm’s Scottsdale office with local and regional clients, and the firm is rapidly outgrowing its office space. Beginning in February, RVi will combine offices with LVA in Tempe at 120 South Ash Avenue, Tempe, AZ 85281.
“I am looking forward to working with Steven and the talented LVA team as we integrate our two offices to create a stronger combined practice. There are many opportunities to leverage our individual strengths and mutual relationships,” Craig said.
Collectively, RVi and LVA have influenced the design of many of the most familiar places in the Valley – from mixed use communities like Anthem, Victory at Verrado, and McDowell Mountain Ranch, to the campuses of Arizona State University, Mayo Hospital & Clinic, and Gore Manufacturing, to specialty planning projects like Marriott Resorts and Estancia.
LVA will operate as LVA, an RVi Company during the transition. The newly-combined firm will begin operating under the RVi brand in the Fall.
About RVi Planning + Landscape Architecture
Founded in 1982, RVi has offices in Austin, Houston, Scottsdale, and Atlanta. The firm provides planning and landscape architecture services in a variety of market sectors, including master-planned communities, commercial developments, parks and open space, and academic campuses, among others. The firm is credited with work on notable local projects such as Sun City Grand, Anthem, Meridian Crossing, Victory at Verrado, and Encore at Eastmark, and is currently working on projects with Arizona State University, the Chandler Regional Medical Center, and Sun Communities in Colorado. RVi opened its current Scottsdale office in 2016 on the heels of an equity investment from national consulting firm Atwell, LLC.
About LVA Urban Design Studio
LVA was founded in 1981 as G. William Larson Associates. Current President Steven Voss joined the firm in 1986 and became the sole owner in 1993, transitioning the firm name to Larson Voss Associates and later LVA Urban Design Studio. The firm is an industry leader in land planning and entitlements, having worked on some of the most recognizable developments in the Valley including Anthem (north), Grayhawk, Boulders (replan), Seven Canyons, Festival (AZ), and Scottsdale Health System's Hospital campuses.
About Atwell, LLC
Atwell is an engineering, consulting and construction services firm with offices throughout the country. Recognized as a ENR Top 500 Firm, Atwell delivers a broad range of services to clients in a variety of industries including real estate and land development, power and energy, and oil and gas.
For more information about RVi: www.rviplanning.com
For more information about LVA: http://lvadesign.com/
For more information about Atwell, LLC: http://atwell-group.com/
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006123/en/
RVi Planning + Landscape Architecture
Katie Harris
kharris@rviplanning.com
(512) 657-2206
Source: RVi Planning + Landscape Architecture