SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hub International of California, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hub International Limited, a leading global insurance brokerage, risk advisory and employee benefits firm, announced today the hiring of Jason Del Grande as Vice President, Employee Benefits. Del Grande will join the San Francisco Employee Benefits team which effectively shares servicing responsibility with ten "sister" offices in Northern California. Del Grande comes to HUB as a seasoned sales leader, benefits consultant, and risk management advisor. Del Grande will report directly to Mary Castiglia, Executive Vice President in the San Francisco HUB office and have management responsibilities under the direction of Shannon Taylor, West Regional President of Employee Benefits and James "Chip" Stuart, Chief Sales Officer for HUB California.
Del Grande joins HUB with over 12 years of industry experience and a strong pedigree in insurance, cross-selling initiatives and team production. He began his insurance career with internships at Gallagher & Marsh while attending University of Southern California and was most recently recognized as a top performer at EPIC Insurance Brokers in San Francisco. His duties at EPIC included Business Development, Recruiting, and Acquisitions within the Programs division.
Ms. Castiglia said of Del Grande's hiring: "Jason is a significant addition to our growing San Francisco office and brings an added dimension to client relationships. His positive energy, focus, and entrepreneurial spirit is contagious."
Del Grande said of his decision to join HUB, "I chose HUB for the next step in my career because of its global footprint, market clout, and remarkable leadership. HUB's fast paced environment and culture also seem to embrace my skill-set. I look forward to my experience in the insurance industry adding value to our team."
Del Grande has a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business. He is a third-generation San Franciscan, whose family owns the legendary Swan Oyster Depot. Del Grande is currently a Board member for the USC Marshall Partners, and an active contributor to several non-profits and foundations in the Greater Bay Area.
About Hub International
Headquartered in Chicago, IL, Hub International Limited is a leading global insurance brokerage that provides property and casualty, life and health, employee benefits, investment, and risk management products and services through offices located in the United States, Canada, and Latin America. Hub California is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hub International, Limited. with Northern California offices in Concord, Roseville, Sacramento, San Rafael, San Ramon, San Francisco and Sunnyvale.
Media Contact:
Mary Castiglia
Senior Vice President and Manager
San Francisco Commercial Markets
HUB International Insurance Services Inc.
580 California Street, #1300
San Francisco, CA 94104
Telephone: (415) 529-3475
188474@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hub-international-adds-jason-del-grande-to-growing-san-francisco-employee-benefits-practice-300579882.html
SOURCE Hub International