SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Corporate Capital Trust, Inc. (NYSE:CCT), a leading business development company, today announced that the payment date of its previously announced regular quarterly cash distribution of $0.26813 per share and special cash distribution of $0.10125 per share has been accelerated to January 11, 2018. The distributions were previously scheduled to be paid on January 15, 2018. The record date of December 29, 2017 is unchanged.
About Corporate Capital Trust
Corporate Capital Trust is a business development company that provides investors an opportunity to access middle market direct lending investments. The Company is externally managed by KKR Credit Advisors (US) LLC (“KKR”), a subsidiary of KKR & Co. LLP (“KKR & Co.”), and its investment objective is to provide shareholders with current income and, to a lesser extent, long-term capital appreciation. The Company intends to meet its investment objective by investing primarily in the debt of privately owned companies, with a focus on originated transactions. For additional information, please visit www.corporatecapitaltrust.com .
About KKR
KKR & Co. is a leading global investment firm that manages multiple alternative asset classes, including credit, private equity, energy, infrastructure and real estate, and, through its strategic manager partnerships, hedge funds. KKR & Co. aims to generate attractive investment returns by following a patient and disciplined investment approach, employing world-class people, and driving growth and value creation with KKR & Co. portfolio companies. KKR & Co. invests its own capital alongside its partners' capital and provides financing solutions and investment opportunities through its capital markets business. References to KKR’s investments may include the activities of its sponsored funds. For additional information about KKR & Co. (NYSE: KKR), please visit KKR's website at http://www.kkr.com and on Twitter @KKR_Co.
Forward-Looking Statements
The information in this press release may include “forward-looking statements.” These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the Company’s management and on the information currently available to management at the time of such statements. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates” or similar expressions that indicate future events. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations include the factors disclosed in the Company’s filings with the SEC, including the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed with the SEC on March 20, 2017. The Company undertakes no obligation to update such statements to reflect subsequent events.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006841/en/
Media:
Kristi Huller or Cara Major
media@kkr.com
or
Investor Relations:
Danny McMahon or Donna Bass
CCT-IR@kkr.com
Source: Corporate Capital Trust