SAN DIEGO & ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Shareholder rights law firm Robbins Arroyo LLP announces that investors filed a class action complaint against Acuity Brands, Inc. (NYSE: AYI) on behalf of all purchasers of Acuity securities between June 29, 2016 and April 3, 2017, for alleged violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by Acuity's officers and directors. Acuity provides lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications in North America and internationally.
View this information on the law firm's Shareholder Rights Blog: www.robbinsarroyo.com/acuity-brands-inc
Acuity Accused of Overstating the Company's Ability to Achieve Profitable Sales Growth
According to the complaint, on October 5, 2016, Acuity released the first of a series of disappointing financial and operational reports to investors. Despite the poor results, Acuity reiterated its targeted sales growth in the "mid-to-upper-single-digit range" and represented that management "remain[ed] bullish regarding the company's prospects for continued profitable growth." Then, on January 9, 2017, Acuity reported softening demand due to election jitters and decreased profitability because the company hired more employees than necessary for the volume of sales generated, but again reiterated that management "remain[ed] bullish regarding the company's prospects for continued profitable growth." On April 4, 2017, Acuity lowered growth expectations, admitting that the company continued to suffer from overstaffing issues and that demand softness could linger into the future. As news of Acuity's troubles hit the market, Acuity's stock fell nearly 32% to close at $173.93 per share on April 4, 2017. Acuity's stock has yet to regain its pre-class period value when it regularly traded over $250.00.
Acuity Shareholders Have Legal Options
If you would like more information about your rights and potential remedies contact attorney Leonid Kandinov at (800) 350-6003, LKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com , or via the shareholder information form on the firm's website.
Robbins Arroyo LLP, a nationally recognized leader in shareholder rights law, represents individual and institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits, and has helped its clients realize more than $1 billion of value for themselves and the companies in which they have invested.
Attorney Advertising. Past results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006974/en/
Robbins Arroyo LLP
Leonid Kandinov
(619) 525-3990 or Toll Free (800) 350-6003
LKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com
www.robbinsarroyo.com
Source: Robbins Arroyo LLP