Proposed acquisition includes two pioneering hemostat and sealant products, including the first and only stand-alone recombinant thrombin and a surgical sealant Products expand Baxter’s portfolio of surgical solutions to address intraoperative bleeding and increase surgeons’ options
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Baxter International Inc. (NYSE: BAX), a global medical products company, is committed to advancing surgical innovation and today announced an agreement to acquire two hemostat and sealant products from Mallinckrodt plc: RECOTHROM Thrombin topical (Recombinant), the first and only stand-alone recombinant thrombin, and PREVELEAK Surgical Sealant, which is used in vascular reconstruction.
“Uncontrolled intraoperative bleeding can lead to a wide variety of clinical and economic complications for patients and hospitals. As a leading provider of advanced hemostats and sealants, Baxter is focused on continually identifying solutions to help meet surgeons’ varying needs,” said Wil Boren, president of Baxter’s Advanced Surgery business. “We are excited about the addition of RECOTHROM to help surgeons address less severe intraoperative bleeding and PREVELEAK to complement Baxter’s existing portfolio of sealants for cardiovascular and other surgical specialties.”
Thrombin is a proven blood coagulation agent – used on its own or in combination with other hemostats – that has been estimated to be used in more than one million patients per year in the United States to help surgeons address intraoperative bleeding 1 . RECOTHROM is a thrombin-based product indicated as an aid to hemostasis whenever oozing blood and minor bleeding from capillaries and small venules is accessible and control of bleeding by standard surgical techniques is ineffective or impractical in adults and pediatric populations greater than or equal to one month of age. As the only topical hemostat from recombinant DNA origin approved in the United States and Canada, RECOTHROM can be used in pediatric and adult patients with or without antibodies to bovine-derived thrombin.
The acquisition also includes PREVELEAK, a surgical sealant designed to seal suture holes formed during surgical repair of the circulatory system and to reinforce sutured connections between blood vessels. PREVELEAK augments Baxter’s portfolio of complementary hemostats, sealants and tissue products used in cardiovascular and other surgeries, offering surgeons additional clinically differentiated products to address patients’ varying needs. PREVELEAK is approved in the United States and European Union.
Sales of the proposed acquired products totaled approximately $56 million in the twelve months preceding September 29, 2017. Upon closing, the deal is expected to be modestly accretive to Baxter’s 2018 adjusted earnings and increasingly accretive thereafter. Under the terms of the agreement, Baxter will acquire RECOTHROM and PREVELEAK for an upfront payment of approximately $153 million and potential contingent payments in the future.
The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2018, subject to the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other customary closing conditions.
About Baxter’s Surgery Portfolio
Baxter is committed to advancing surgical innovation with a variety of products and delivery devices used for hemostasis (addressing bleeding), tissue sealing, and hard tissue regeneration, as well as soft tissue repair and microsurgery. With products available in nearly 60 countries, Baxter is at the forefront of providing surgeons and hospitals with innovative products that improve patient outcomes, are convenient to use and are cost-effective. Baxter’s surgical portfolio includes FLOSEAL Hemostatic Matrix, TISSEEL Fibrin Sealant, COSEAL Surgical Sealant and VASCU-GUARD Patch among others.
About Baxter
Baxter International Inc. provides a broad portfolio of essential renal and hospital products, including home, acute and in-center dialysis; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition; surgery products and anesthetics; and pharmacy automation, software and services. The company’s global footprint and the critical nature of its products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. Baxter’s employees worldwide are building upon the company’s rich heritage of medical breakthroughs to advance the next generation of healthcare innovations that enable patient care.
IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION
RECOTHROM Thrombin topical (Recombinant) Indication
RECOTHROM Thrombin topical (Recombinant) is a topical thrombin indicated to aid hemostasis whenever oozing blood and minor bleeding from capillaries and small venules is accessible and control of bleeding by standard surgical techniques (such as suture, ligature, or cautery) is ineffective or impractical in adults and pediatric populations greater than or equal to one month of age.
RECOTHROM may be used in conjunction with an absorbable gelatin sponge, USP.
IMPORTANT RISK INFORMATION
Contraindications
Do not inject directly into the circulatory system. Do not use for the treatment of massive or brisk arterial bleeding. Do not administer to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to RECOTHROM or any components of RECOTHROM. Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to hamster proteins.
Warnings and Precautions
For topical use only. DO NOT INJECT. RECOTHROM may cause thrombosis if it enters the circulatory system. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur. RECOTHROM is produced in a genetically modified Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell line and may contain hamster or snake proteins.
Adverse Reactions
Thromboembolic adverse reactions were reported in 6% of surgical patients treated with RECOTHROM in all completed clinical trials. Antibody formation to RECOTHROM occurred in <1% of patients. None of the antibodies detected neutralized native human thrombin.
Use in Specific Populations
Pregnancy Category C. RECOTHROM should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Pediatric Use: Safety and efficacy have not been established in neonates. Geriatric Use: Of 644 patients in clinical studies of RECOTHROM, 36% (n=232/644) were ≥65 years old and 15% (n=95/644) were ≥75 years old. No differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.
Please see additional important risk information and Full Prescribing Information .
PREVELEAK Surgical Sealant Indications
PREVELEAK Surgical Sealant is indicated for use in vascular reconstructions to achieve adjunctive hemostasis by mechanically sealing areas of leakage.
IMPORTANT RISK INFORMATION
Contraindications
Not for use in patients with known allergies to materials of bovine or shellfish origin.
• Not for intravascular use.
• Not for cerebrovascular repair or cerebrospinal leak repair.
Warnings and Precautions
• Do not use as a substitute for s