The following factors could affect Italian markets on Wednesday.
Reuters has not verified the newspaper reports, and cannot vouch for their accuracy. New items are marked with (*).
For a complete list of diary events in Italy please click on .
POLITICS Rome, “Southern European Countries Summit” with Italian Prime Minister (PM) Paolo Gentiloni, French PM Emmanuel Macron, Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy (1800 GMT).
The leader of Italy’s anti-establishment 5-Star Movement, which leads opinion polls ahead of a March 4 election, said on Tuesday that pulling Italy out of the euro zone was no longer a goal of his party.
ECONOMY Bank of Italy releases November data on bank lending and domestic government bond holdings at Italy-based banks.
DEBT Treasury offers 7.5 billion euros 12-month BOT bills.
Italy’s Treasury said on Tuesday it had picked Banca IMI, Barclays Bank, ING Bank, JP Morgan and Royal Bank of Scotland to issue a new 20-year BTP bond in the near future.
COMPANIES (*) BANKS, UBI BANCA, BPER BANCA An arbitrator at market regulator Consob has ruled that investors in four small banks that were taken over by UBI Banca and BPER Banca last year can seek compensation from the two buyers, several papers reported. Italy’s resolution fund has committed cover potential claims up to a certain amount, La Stampa added.
(*) ASSET MANAGEMENT Italian asset management industry could reap 3.5 billion euros a year in additional revenues thanks to new MiFID II regulation, Il Sole 24 Ore said, citing a study by Excellence Consulting.
BANCA CARIGE Areo II Sarl, a vehicle linked to London-based hedge fund Chenavari, had a stake of 4.9 percent in the regional lender, a filing published by the Italian market watchdog showed on Tuesday. According the filing, Areo II cut its stake to 4.9 percent from an initial 6.77 percent owned after the bank’s rights issue.
BRUNELLO CUCINELLI Italian fashion group Brunello Cucinelli said on Tuesday its top investor Fedone had completed the placement of 4.08 million shares of the company, equal to a 6 percent stake, at a price of 26 euros per share through an accelerated book building on the market.
(*) TELECOM ITALIA The phone group is willing to spend up to 700 million euros to facilitate the exit of thousands of employees, several media reported.
Infrastructure fund F2i might be the only company presenting a binding offer for Telecom Italia’s Persidera unit by a Jan. 15 deadline, Il Messaggero said. The paper adds Discovery may decide not to bid and keep renting frequencies from Persidera instead, while Rai Way and EI Towers have yet to find a partner in the bid that would hold a majority stake and would thus allow either company to surpass a limit imposed by the EU and regulator AGCOM of having five multiplexes.
(*) BANCA MONTE DEI PASCHI DI SIENA BC Partners and Apax are expected to submit a binding offer for the lender’s IT platform, possibly assisted by some industrial partners, MF said. The equity value of the deal is seen close to 500 million euros, the paper added.
(*) SNAM The European Investment Bank is expected to give its ok to a 1.5 billion euro loan requested by the TAP AG consortium, MF said.
DANIELI Danieli said on Tuesday it got a order from Nucor Corporation for an operation to be built in Missouri.
BENI STABILI General Manager Alexei Dal Pastro holds news conference (1030 GMT).
UNIEURO Board meeting on Q3 results closed on Nov. 30, 2017.
For Italian market data and news, click on codes in brackets:
20 biggest gainers (in percentage)
20 biggest losers (in percentage)
FTSE IT allshare index
FTSE Mib index
FTSE Allstars index...
FTSE Mid Cap index....
Block trades
Stories on Italy IT-LEN
For pan-European market data and news, click on codes in brackets: European Equities speed guide FTSEurofirst 300 index DJ STOXX index Top 10 STOXX sectors Top 10 EUROSTOXX sectors Top 10 Eurofirst 300 sectors Top 25 European pct gainers Top 25 European pct losers Main stock markets: Dow Jones Wall Street report Nikkei 225 Tokyo report FTSE 100 London report Xetra DAX Frankfurt market stories CAC-40 Paris market stories... World Indices Reuters survey of world bourse outlook Western European IPO diary European Asset Allocation Reuters News at a Glance: Equities Main currency report:
 