CRYSTAL LAKE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AptarGroup, Inc. (NYSE: ATR) Chairman of the Board King Harris will be retiring effective May 2, 2018, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The company’s Board of Directors has elected current director George Fotiades to replace Harris as Chairman upon his retirement.
“After 40 years of insightful guidance and dedicated oversight of Aptar and its predecessor businesses, King Harris will retire in May,” said Dr. Joanne Smith, Chairwoman of the company’s Corporate Governance Committee. Harris had overseen Aptar’s predecessor businesses when they were part of Pittway Corporation and had served as a director since 1993 when Aptar was spun-off to become a stand-alone public company, and served as Chairman of the Board since 1995. Smith added, “King Harris is one of the founders credited with fostering the original vision for Aptar, as well as working closely with Aptar’s leadership team to successfully grow the company. Thanks to his energetic leadership and tireless effort for decades, Aptar has become the innovative leader in dispensing and drug delivery solutions. He leaves an important legacy at Aptar and, by extension, in our global markets. Further, we are very fortunate that George Fotiades will succeed King as the next Chairman with unanimous and enthusiastic support of the Board. George has excellent leadership experience and a deep understanding of Aptar’s strategy, markets and competitive advantages having served as a member of the Board since 2011.”
Separately, the Board appointed Craig Owens and Jesse Wu to the Board of Directors effective February 1, 2018. Mr. Owens, 63, is the former Chief Financial Officer and Administrative Officer of Campbell Soup Company. In addition, he was the Chairman of the company’s Operating Committee. Mr. Wu, 61, currently advises private equity firms and previously held senior leadership roles at Johnson & Johnson, including Chairman of Johnson & Johnson China and Worldwide Chairman of the company’s Consumer Healthcare Division.
“I am delighted to welcome Craig and Jesse to our Board of Directors,” said King Harris, Aptar’s Chairman of the Board. “Craig brings exceptional experience in global finance and operations and his insight into the food and beverage markets will be of substantial value to Aptar. Jesse’s deep understanding of the Asian region, including considerable transaction experience and exposure to the consumer markets we serve, will be of great benefit as we look to further penetrate high growth economies around the globe. Our Board is looking forward to the contributions that Craig and Jesse will make as we continue to deliver value to our customers and shareholders.”
AptarGroup, Inc. is a leading global supplier of a broad range of innovative dispensing solutions for the beauty, personal care, home care, prescription drug, consumer health care, injectables, food, and beverage markets. AptarGroup is headquartered in Crystal Lake, Illinois, with manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. For more information, visit www.aptar.com .
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Aptar’s growth opportunities. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “future,” “potential” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would” and “could” are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to us. Accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to known or unknown risks and uncertainties that exist in our operations and business environment including, but not limited to, the possible impact and consequences of the fire at the Company’s facility in Annecy, France; the impact and extent of contamination found at the Company’s facility in Brazil; economic conditions worldwide including potential deflationary conditions in regions we rely on for growth; political conditions worldwide; significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or our effective tax rate; changes in customer and/or consumer spending levels; financial conditions of customers and suppliers; consolidations within our customer or supplier bases; fluctuations in the cost of materials, components and other input costs; the availability of raw materials and components; our ability to successfully implement facility expansions and new facility projects; our ability to increase prices, contain costs and improve productivity; changes in capital availability or cost, including interest rate fluctuations; volatility of global credit markets; cybersecurity threats that could impact our networks and reporting systems; fiscal and monetary policies and other regulations, including changes in tax rates; direct or indirect consequences of acts of war or terrorism; work stoppages due to labor disputes; and competition, including technological advances. For additional information on these and other risks and uncertainties, please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Form 10-Ks and Form 10-Qs. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006484/en/
AptarGroup, Inc.
Matthew DellaMaria
815-477-0424
Source: AptarGroup, Inc.