SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Vocera Communications, Inc. (NYSE:VCRA) today announced that it expects to release its fourth quarter financial results for the period ended December 31, 2017, on Thursday, Feb. 8, 2018 after market close. In conjunction with a press release, management will host a conference call at 5 p.m. ET that afternoon.
A free, live webcast of the conference call will be available on the Investors’ section of the company’s website at investors.vocera.com .
The call also can be accessed by dialing 833-238-7944, or 647-689-4192 for international callers, and using the access code 1275387.
A replay of the call will be archived on the Vocera website .
About Vocera
The mission of Vocera Communications, Inc. is to simplify and improve the lives of healthcare professionals and patients, while enabling hospitals to enhance quality of care and operational efficiency. In 2000, when the company was founded, we began to forever change the way care teams communicate. Today, Vocera continues to offer the leading platform for clinical communication and workflow. More than 1,400 hospitals and health systems around the world have selected our solutions for care teams to text securely using smartphones or make calls with our hands-free, wearable Vocera Badge. Interoperability between Vocera and more than 120 clinical systems helps reduce alarm fatigue, speed up staff response times, and improve patient care, safety and experience. In addition to healthcare, Vocera is at home in luxury hotels, aged care facilities, nuclear facilities, libraries, retail stores and more. Vocera makes a difference in any industry where workers are on the move and need to connect instantly with team members and access resources or information quickly. In 2017, Vocera made the list of Forbes 100 Most Trustworthy Companies in America. Learn more at www.vocera.com , and follow @VoceraComm on Twitter.
The Vocera logo is a trademark of Vocera Communications, Inc. Vocera® is a trademark of Vocera Communications, Inc. registered in the United States and other jurisdictions. All other trademarks appearing in this release are the property of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005301/en/
Vocera Communications, Inc.
Sue Dooley, 408-882-5971
sdooley@vocera.com
Source: Vocera Communications, Inc.