GREENSBORO, N.C., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Unifi, Inc. (NYSE: UFI) will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m., Eastern Time, on Thursday, January 25, 2018, to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2018 financial results.
The second quarter fiscal 2018 financial results and supporting materials will be available beginning the morning of the call on the Company's website at http://investor.unifi.com . The conference call can be accessed approximately 10 minutes prior to the beginning of the call by dialing (877) 353-3062 (Domestic) or (224) 357-2390 (International) and, when prompted, providing conference ID number 6199929.
There will also be a live audio webcast of the call, which can be accessed on the Company's website at http://investor.unifi.com .
A replay of the conference call will be available approximately two hours following the call through February 1, 2018 and can be accessed via the Company's website at http://investor.unifi.com . In addition, a transcript and presentation slides will be available on the Company's website for 12 months following the call.
Unifi, Inc. (NYSE: UFI) is a global textile solutions provider and one of the world's leading innovators in manufacturing synthetic and recycled performance fibers. The Company's proprietary technologies offer increased performance, comfort and style advantages, enabling customers to develop products that perform, look and feel better. Through REPREVE ® , one of Unifi's proprietary technologies and the global leader in branded recycled performance fibers, Unifi has transformed more than 10 billion plastic bottles into recycled fiber for new clothing, shoes, home goods and other consumer products. Unifi continually innovates to meet consumer needs in moisture management, thermal regulation, antimicrobial, UV protection, stretch, water repellency and enhanced softness with leading products such as Sorbtek®, XS ™ Cross Section technology and Cotton-like ™ technology. Unifi collaborates with many of the world's most influential brands in the sports apparel, fashion, home, automotive and other industries. For more information about Unifi, visit www.Unifi.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/unifi-announces-second-quarter-fiscal-2018-earnings-conference-call-300581392.html
SOURCE Unifi, Inc.