IRVINE, Calif., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Mazda North American Operations (MNAO) today announced the promotion of Jim Lievois, 60, to the newly created role of Executive Vice President (EVP). He also will continue to serve in his current role as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) while overseeing Finance, Administration and IT. Based at the company's Irvine, California Headquarters office, Lievois will continue to report to MNAO president and CEO, Masahiro Moro.
In this new role, Lievois will oversee sales, service and marketing, and sales operations for MNAO. In addition, he will continue to oversee financial planning, treasury, accounting, tax, administration and information technology. Specifically, he will be tasked with implementing a customer-centric approach that is innovative, forward thinking and technologically advanced in order to deliver a positive Mazda brand experience at every touchpoint along the company's customers' journey from research through to ownership and back again to repurchase.
"As the Mazda brand continues to evolve into a more premium position within the industry, it's critical that we put our customers' needs and expectations at the forefront of everything we do in order to deliver an outstanding experience," said Masahiro Moro, president and CEO, MNAO. "Jim's future vision, vast experience and respected leadership style make him the perfect candidate to be successful in this new role."
Lievois has more than 35 years of experience in the automotive industry. He joined MNAO in 1997, following 16 years with Ford Motor Co. Throughout his career, he has held a number of management positions in finance, treasury and administration.
Lievois graduated with a B.A. in marketing from Michigan State University and received an MBA from the University of Detroit.
Mazda North American Operations is headquartered in Irvine, California, and oversees the sales, marketing, parts and customer service support of Mazda vehicles in the United States and Mexico through nearly 600 dealers. Operations in Mexico are managed by Mazda Motor de Mexico in
Mexico City. For more information on Mazda vehicles, including photography and B-roll, please visit the online Mazda media center at InsideMazda.MazdaUSA.com/Newsroom .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mazda-north-american-operations-promotes-jim-lievois-to-executive-vice-president-300578764.html
SOURCE Mazda North American Operations