NORFOLK, Va., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Signature Family Wealth Advisors, an independent multi-family office and family wealth management firm, is pleased to welcome Massey Family Management/Triad LC. The families of Ivor and Gene Massey will become clients of the firm, and Triad team members will be joining the Signature Richmond office.
With the merger, Signature not only adds to its portfolio a family with deep roots in Richmond, but also a talented team of professionals who understand how to serve successful families effectively and efficiently. The Triad team includes professionals Greg Suskind, Suzann Ridge, Lanky Hicks and Kristina Spacek-Spivey. They will join Chris Rusbuldt in Signature's Richmond office.
"We are thrilled to welcome the Masseys and the Triad team to the Signature family," says Randy Webb, President and CEO of Signature. "As a multi-family office, we bring an enhanced ability to source talented employees, more buying power, and greater access to investment managers and opportunities."
The decision to merge its single-family office into a multi-family office setting is the result of well-researched and thoughtful deliberations regarding the most effective succession strategy for Massey Family Management. Decisive factors were the Masseys' longstanding familiarity with Signature and Signature's expertise in customizing financial management strategies to the needs of individual families.
Ivor Massey considers the merger "the next evolution of the family office. The combination with Signature provides better long-term financial management with the added advantage of ensuring our employees an advantageous career path."
"Signature also brings access to a strong business professional network and focused attention on the unique needs of the families we serve," adds Webb. "We look forward in the future to bringing these capabilities to other single-family firms."
Signature Family Wealth Advisors
Signature is a Virginia-based multi-family office, offering clients comprehensive strategies and solutions for all aspects of their financial life. With assets under management in excess of $4 billion, Signature takes an intelligent approach to creating customized plans for their high net worth individuals and families. For more information on Signature visit www.SignatureFamilyWealth.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/richmond-virginia-based-massey-family-managementtriad-lc-joins-signature-family-wealth-advisors-300583734.html
SOURCE Signature Family Wealth Advisors