GREENWOOD VILLAGE, Colo., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc. (NASDAQ: RRGB), a full-service restaurant chain serving an innovative selection of high-quality gourmet burgers in a family-friendly atmosphere, today announced the appointment of Beverly Carmichael as executive vice president, chief people, culture and resource officer.
Ms. Carmichael is a recognized human resources executive and licensed labor and employment attorney. In her new role, Ms. Carmichael will be responsible for leading Red Robin's human resource and legal teams. She will report to Denny Marie Post, Red Robin's president and chief executive officer.
"Beverly has demonstrated success translating business and operational objectives into aligned HR strategies," said Ms. Post. "In addition to her leadership skills, Beverly is a passionate 'culture ambassador' and thought partner who embodies our Company's core values. Her talents will serve us well as we continue to grow our brand and ensure that Guests and team members alike are better for being here."
Ms. Carmichael has more than 25 years of leadership experience in multiple industries. Prior to joining the Red Robin team, she most recently served as senior vice president and chief people officer for Cracker Barrel Old Country Store. She has also previously served in a variety of human resources and legal roles at some of the nation's most high-profile brands, including Southwest Airlines and Ticketmaster.
She earned a Juris Doctorate and a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from University of Oklahoma in Norman, Okla., and currently serves as a Women's Foodservice Forum (WFF) board member.
About Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc. (NASDAQ: RRGB)
Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc. ( www.redrobin.com ), a casual dining restaurant chain founded in 1969 that operates through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Red Robin International, Inc., and under the trade name, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers and Brews, is the Gourmet Burger Authority ™ , famous for serving more than two dozen craveable, high-quality burgers with Bottomless Steak Fries ® in a fun environment welcoming to guests of all ages. At Red Robin, burgers are more than just something guests eat; they're a bonding experience that brings together friends and families, kids and adults. In addition to its many burger offerings, Red Robin serves a wide variety of salads, soups, appetizers, entrees, desserts and signature beverages. Red Robin offers a variety of options behind the bar, including its extensive selection of local and regional beers, and innovative adult beer shakes and cocktails. It's now easy to take Red Robin anywhere with online ordering for to-go and Gourmet Burger Bar catering pickups through Yummm2Go. There are more than 560 Red Robin restaurants across the United States and Canada, including Red Robin Express ® locations and those operating under franchise agreements. Red Robin… YUMMM ® ! Connect with Red Robin on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/red-robin-appoints-beverly-carmichael-executive-vice-president-chief-people-culture-and-resource-officer-300578464.html
SOURCE Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc.