Assumes Leadership Role as Firm Drives Toward Next Growth Phase
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cassin & Cassin LLP, a law firm specializing in real estate, real estate finance and trusts and estates, today announced that Michael J. Hurley, Jr. has been named Managing Partner effective January 1, 2018.
Mr. Hurley, who began his career at Cassin & Cassin LLP in 1992, is the first to hold such a position at the Firm. Together with Joseph M. Cassin, Chairman and Founder of the Firm, Mr. Hurley will steer its executive committee and will be responsible for, among other duties, overseeing operations, driving business development, and managing external relations.
Mr. Hurley represents institutional lenders in all aspects of commercial real estate finance, including loans intended for sale, syndication or securitization. In addition, he handles commercial transactions encompassing the sale and disposition of real property and equity interests, mortgage and mezzanine loan originations and formation of entities for acquisition, ownership, development, operation and/or management of real property.
“Michael’s promotion formalizes a role he’s held for some time,” said Joseph Cassin. “He’s a proven leader who has made many meaningful contributions that have been instrumental to the Firm’s growth over the years. We congratulate Michael on this well-deserved position, and I look forward to working closely with him as we continue building the firm together.”
“This is a great honor, and is a role which I look forward to fulfilling with the support of Joseph Cassin and my colleagues,” said Michael Hurley. “Cassin & Cassin had a very strong 2017 and we’re well positioned to build on that success this year. We’ve added multiple new clients and mandates from existing clients, and we are actively recruiting to help grow our talent pool.”
Mr. Hurley, who received his Juris Doctor from Fordham University and his Bachelor of Science from Providence College, is admitted to practice in the State of New York. He’s a member of the American Bar Association, Community Bankers Association of New York State, Mortgage and Real Estate Finance Committee, CRE Finance Council, Mortgage Bankers Association of New York, where he served as President from June 2008-2010, National Multifamily Housing Council, and the New York State Bar Association, Real Property Law Section. He’s currently a board member of the White Plains YMCA.
About Cassin & Cassin LLP
Cassin & Cassin LLP, a law firm with offices in New York, Dallas and Los Angeles, has over three decades of experience providing the highest quality of service to our clients. Our attorneys focus on real estate law, representing lending institutions, investment funds, developers, small to medium size companies in all aspects of financing, buying, selling, leasing and development. In addition, our well-established Trust & Estates practice advises individuals on estate planning and administration, residential real estate financing and the formation of limited liability companies and private foundations. For more information, visit www.cassinllp.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005405/en/
Water & Wall Group
Reed Schneider, 212-343-2363
reed@waterandwallgroup.com
Source: Cassin & Cassin LLP