KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan. 16 , 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- New Directions Behavioral Health (New Directions) today announced the acquisition of E4 Health's assets, client base and employees.
"When individuals are healthy and thriving, their organizations thrive too," said Lee Tuveson, president and chief executive officer of New Directions. "By combining New Directions' long-standing employee assistance program with E4 Health's experienced workforce, innovative technology, and vast provider network, we will help employers, colleges and universities meet the physical and mental health challenges of their employees and students."
Unhealthy behavioral and lifestyle choices are driving 70 percent of health care costs in the U.S.* "You can't address the issues of skyrocketing health care costs by separating physical and behavioral health issues," said E4 Health president Brian Summers. "We are thrilled to join the New Directions family – a company that closely resembles our whole-person health focus. E4 Health cares deeply about its clients, and believes New Directions is the best organization to fully support their health needs going forward."
New Directions, headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri, and E4 Health, headquartered in Irving, Texas, together have:
675 employees 9 locations across the U.S. 2,500+ customers, serving 16 million individuals 20,000+ national provider network
New Directions and E4 Health share a vision that good health can only be achieved by a healthy mind and a healthy body. "The alliance we're creating will give clients the integrated services, products and tools they need to help people manage their total health, and thereby contain costs in their organizations," said Tuveson.
E4 Health will continue to fully service its existing customers under the name E4 LLC, with the support and guidance of New Directions. New Directions will work with all clients to meet their short-term and long-term business needs.
About New Directions
Founded in 1995, New Directions helps people live healthy, balanced lives. The fast-growing health care company provides managed behavioral health care services, an employee assistance program (EAP), student assistance program, organizational consulting, and health coaching to private and public health plans, Fortune 100 companies, large and medium employers, and labor groups. For more information, visit ndbh.com .
About E4
Founded in 2011, E4 helps organizations reduce their medical costs by offering ways to help individuals make healthier lifestyle choices and manage chronic illnesses. The company delivers award-winning EAP, behavioral health, wellness and student resource services. For more information, go to www.e4healthinc.com .
*Source: The Institute for HealthCare Consumerism
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-directions-behavioral-health-acquires-e4-health-300583169.html
SOURCE New Directions Behavioral Health