SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Twilio Inc. (NYSE:TWLO), the leading cloud communications platform company, today announced that cloud marketing veteran Sara Varni will join Twilio as the company's chief marketing officer. Varni joins Twilio from Salesforce where she spent the last ten years bringing the cloud to enterprises, most recently leading go-to-market efforts for Salesforce’s flagship product, Sales Cloud. Varni’s expertise creating an outstanding customer experience and operating a business at a massive scale will support Twilio’s commitment to its developer-first strategy while the company simultaneously takes on the enterprise market.
Twilio CMO
“Sara joins at a critical time in Twilio’s journey, as we build on our proven developer-first strategy while making the Twilio brand more relevant to business decision makers,” said George Hu, chief operating officer at Twilio. “Sara is both developer-savvy and experienced in scaling one of the world’s most respected software companies. Her extensive experience will play an instrumental role in Twilio’s next growth stage.”
“Today’s consumers expect the companies that they interact with to know them and to be ready to communicate with them in a highly contextual way,” said Varni. “Twilio is the company that empowers businesses to deliver the personal experience their customers expect. As chief marketing officer, I look forward to further bridging the gap between the developers who I believe are the unsung heroes of the customer experience, and the business users who are looking to engage with their customers in new ways.”
During Varni’s 10-year career at Salesforce, she served as senior vice president of product marketing where she was responsible for the positioning and go-to-market strategy for Salesforce’s flagship product, Sales Cloud. She also served as chief marketing officer for Desk.com , an all-in-one customer service app for fast-growing companies. She was also an instrumental and early member of the Salesforce AppExchange team, where she worked with hundreds of partners to launch cloud businesses and helped grow the AppExchange to become a leading enterprise app marketplace that today has more than 5000 apps and solutions.
Prior to joining Salesforce, Varni worked in mobile strategy at E! Networks. She holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration from Bucknell University and a master’s degree in business administration from the Anderson School of Management at UCLA. Sara has a lifelong passion for music and has partnered with Musicians on Call, an organization that pairs famous musicians with children who have life threatening illnesses.
About Twilio
Twilio's mission is to fuel the future of communications. Developers and businesses use Twilio to make communications relevant and contextual by embedding messaging , voice and video capabilities directly into their software applications. Founded in 2008, Twilio has over 900 employees, with headquarters in San Francisco and other offices in Bogotá, Dublin, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Malmö, Mountain View, Munich, New York City, Singapore and Tallinn.
Source: Twilio
Contact:
Twilio
press@twilio.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/e045f12f-0c56-4e8a-bb91-db4efbc2c087
Source:Twilio