SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Emerald Expositions Events, Inc. (NYSE:EEX) (“Emerald”), a leading U.S. business-to-business trade show and conference producer, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. The dividend is payable on or about February 23, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on Friday, February 9, 2018.
About Emerald Expositions
Emerald is the largest operator of business-to-business trade shows in the United States by net square feet (“NSF”), with most of our trade shows dating back several decades. Emerald currently operates more than 55 trade shows, as well as numerous other events. In 2016, Emerald’s events connected over 500,000 global attendees and exhibitors and occupied over 6.5 million NSF of exhibition space.
For more information on Emerald, please visit www.emeraldexpositions.com .
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations as well as estimates and assumptions prepared by management that, although they believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors outside of the Company’s control that may cause its business, industry, strategy, financing activities or actual results to differ materially. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in the Company’s prospectus dated April 27, 2017 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on May 1, 2017. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005614/en/
Emerald Expositions Events, Inc.
Philip Evans, 1-866-339-4688 (866EEXINVT)
Chief Financial Officer
Investor.relations@emeraldexpo.com
Source: Emerald Expositions Events, Inc.