Reserve goaltender Petr Mrazek posted his second consecutive shutout and the Detroit Red Wings downed the slumping New Jersey Devils 3-0 on Monday night at the Prudential Center.
Mrazek turned aside 37 shots while notching his third shutout of the season. He blanked Chicago 4-0 on Jan. 14. The Red Wings lost their last two games with Jimmy Howard in goal.
Mrazek became the first Wings goaltender to record back-to-back shutouts since Dominik Hasek in January 2008.
Cory Schneider stopped 27 shots for the Devils, who have lost eight of the last 10 games.
Dylan Larkin had a goal and an assist for the Wings while Tyler Bertuzzi and David Booth also scored. Andreas Athanasiou recorded two assists.
Detroit led 1-0 after the first period. Schneider stopped Larkin’s backhander but Bertuzzi was left unchecked and knocked in the rebound 6:36 into the game.
It was Bertuzzi’s second career goal. His other goal came against Chicago on Jan. 14.
The Red Wings had a 12-11 edge in shots on goal and neither side was whistled for a penalty during the period.
That changed dramatically, as the teams had a combined five power plays during the second period. However, all those opportunities were wasted.
Booth gave the Wings a two-goal lead with 1:48 remaining in the period. Jonathan Ericsson skated past the blue line and sent a short pass to Booth, whose slapshot from the point deflected off a Devils stick and over Schneider’s right shoulder. Booth increased his season total to four goals.
Mrazek robbed Brian Boyle with a skate save on a point-blank shot during a power play early in the third.
Larkin fired in his eighth goal from the left circle at the 11:02 mark of the third to make it 3-0. The officials originally ruled no goal but changed the call after replays showed the puck hit inside the crossbar.
Forwards Justin Abdelkader, Darren Helm, Luke Glendening and defenseman Trevor Daley missed the game for Detroit due to injuries. Forwards Brian Gibbons and Taylor Hall and defenseman Mirco Mueller sat out for New Jersey.
--Field Level Media
 