LOS ANGELES, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund (the "Fund"), a closed-end fund traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DBL, today declared a distribution of $0.167 per share for the month of January 2018. The distribution is subject to the following ex-dividend, record and payment dates set by the Fund's Board of Trustees.
January 2018
Declaration
Tuesday, January 2, 2018
Ex-Dividend
Wednesday, January 17, 2018
Record
Thursday, January 18, 2018
Payment
Wednesday, January 31, 2018
This news release is not for tax reporting purposes. The release has been issued to announce the amount and timing of the distributions declared by the Board of Trustees. There is a possibility that distributions may include ordinary income, long-term capital gains or return of capital. The amount of distributable income and the tax characteristics of the distributions are determined at the end of the taxable year. In early 2019, the Fund will send shareholders a Form 1099-DIV specifying how the distributions paid by the Fund during the prior calendar year should be characterized for purposes of reporting the distributions on a shareholder's tax return.
About DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund
The DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund (the "Fund") is a diversified, closed-end management investment company. The Fund's investment objective is to seek high total investment return by providing a high level of current income and the potential for capital appreciation. There is no guarantee that the Fund will achieve its investment objective. Investing in the Fund involves the risk of principal loss.
About DoubleLine Capital LP
DoubleLine Capital LP, a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, acts as the investment adviser for the Fund. DoubleLine's offices in Los Angeles can be reached by telephone at (213) 633-8200 or by e-mail at info@doubleline.com . Media can reach DoubleLine by e-mail at media@doubleline.com . DoubleLine ® is a registered trademark of DoubleLine Capital LP.
Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value, which may increase investors' risk of loss. This risk may be greater for investors expecting to sell their shares in a relatively short period after the completion of the public offering. There are risks associated with an investment in the Fund.
To read about the DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund, please access the Annual Report at www.doublelinefunds.com or call 888.308.3838 to receive a copy. Investors should consider the Fund's investment objective, risks, charges and expenses carefully before investing. An investment in the Fund should not constitute a complete investment program.
This document is not an offer to sell securities or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale or offer of these securities, in any jurisdiction where such sale or offer is not permitted.
Fund investing involves risk. Principal loss is possible.
Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value, which may increase investors' risk of loss. This risk may be greater for investors expecting to sell their shares in a relatively short period after the completion of the public offering. There are risks associated with investment in the fund.
Investments in debt securities typically decline in value when interest rates rise. This risk is usually greater for longer-term debt securities. Investments in asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities include additional risks that investors should be aware of including credit risk, prepayment risk, possible illiquidity and default, as well as increased susceptibility to adverse economic developments. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. The fund may invest in foreign securities which involve greater volatility and political, economic and currency risks and differences in accounting methods. These risks are greater for investments in emerging markets. Investments in lower rated and non-rated securities present a great risk of loss to principal and interest than higher rated securities. Investment strategies may not achieve the desired results due to implementation lag, other timing factors, portfolio management decisions-making, economic or market conditions or other unanticipated factors. In addition, the Fund may invest in other asset classes and investments such as, among others, REITs, credit default swaps, short sales, derivatives and smaller companies which include additional risks. The DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund (the "Fund") is a diversified, closed-end management investment company.
This material may include statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, projections, estimates, and information about possible or future results related to the Fund, market or regulatory developments. The views expressed herein are not guarantees of future performance or economic results and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the views expressed herein. The views expressed herein are subject to change at any time based upon economic, market, or other conditions and DoubleLine undertakes no obligation to update the views expressed herein. While we have gathered this information from sources believed to be reliable, DoubleLine cannot guarantee the accuracy of the information provided. Any discussions of specific securities should not be considered a recommendation to buy or sell those securities. The views expressed herein (including any forward-looking statement) may not be relied upon as investment advice or as an indication of the Fund's trading intent. Information included herein is not an indication of the Fund's future portfolio composition.
Past distribution history is not a projection of potential future distributions. Distributions include all distribution payments regardless of source and may include net income, capital gains, and/or return of capital. Information regarding the source of distributions other than net income may be found by calling 1 (877) 354-6311/1 (877) DLINE11.
Any tax or legal information provided is merely a summary of our understanding and interpretation of some of the current income tax regulations and is not exhaustive. Investors must consult their tax advisor or legal counsel for advice and information concerning their particular situation. Neither the Fund nor any of its representatives may give legal or tax advice.
Quasar Distributors, LLC provides filing administration for DoubleLine Capital LP.
©2018 DoubleLine Capital LP.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/doubleline-opportunistic-credit-fund-declares-january-distribution-300576267.html
SOURCE DoubleLine