BOSTON, January 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Helga Salling Traore, a recognized leader in the life sciences sector in the USA and Europe, has been appointed Vice President of Strategic Consulting USA for DPS Group. In her new role, Helga will be responsible for growing the DPS consulting business and expanding the team in the Americas, reporting directly to Sue Cooke, Managing Director, Global Strategic Consulting.
(Photo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/632241/DPS_Group_Helga_Salling_Traore.jpg )
Sue Cooke commented: "I am delighted that somebody with Helga Salling Traore's capability, experience and track record is joining DPS and I have no doubt Helga will play a major role in the expansion of our consulting business in the US." Helga Salling Traore said after her appointment: "I have been very impressed with the way DPS has grown its business globally in recent years and feel the company ethos and agile and client focused culture is the perfect basis from which to successfully grow this business and offer more extensive support to our life science clients. I am very excited to work with Sue and our team to grow the consulting business."
Helga joins DPS Group from Advent Engineering where she was Vice President Operations for Eastern Region USA and Canada. Previously she held senior leadership positions with NNE (a subsidiary of Novo Nordisk), Labflex, AKVA Group Denmark and AN Group.
Helga holds a MSc in Engineering and Industrial Management from the University of Aalborg is Denmark with post graduate training in business law, business economics and marketing. A native of Denmark, Helga has lived in the USA for seven years and lives with her family in Cary, North Carolina.
About DPS
DPS is a leading engineering and construction firm with a focus on the life sciences and semiconductor sectors. DPS delivers services for clients across the complete engineering and construction value chain including feasibility studies, concepts, architecture, engineering, procurement, construction management, commissioning, qualification and validation.
DPS applies its extensive Process Engineering expertise built over 40+years, as well as significant Lean Construction experience to assist our clients in high-end process sectors such as pharmaceuticals, biotech, medical devices and semiconductors deliver their manufacturing facilities speedily, safely and cost effectively. What sets us apart are the partnerships we build with our clients through a fundamental understanding of their businesses and our own agility, flexibility, original thinking and our high-calibre people.
We have grown substantially in recent years and now employ over 1,300 people in our offices and on client sites in Ireland, Netherlands, Belgium, Israel, Singapore and the United States. For more information, visit http://www.dpsgroupglobal.com .
Contact:
Annette O'Hara
Group Marketing Manager
O +353-1-466-1755
M +353-87-248-2573
E annette.ohara@dpsgroupglobal.com
SOURCE DPS Group Marketing