NEW YORK, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ruder Finn, a leading independent global creative and communications agency, today announced that Laura Ryan has joined the firm as an Executive Vice President in the Corporate Communications practice, further strengthening the group's leadership in executive thought leadership, crisis and issues strategy, and financial communications.
Ryan brings more than 20 years' industry experience to Ruder Finn, both in-house and at global agencies such as Ketchum, Burson-Marsteller, and most recently, Cohn & Wolfe. She has worked with clients spanning a broad range of industries including consumer goods, hospitality, finance, pharma and food and beverage. She will be based in New York and report to CEO Kathy Bloomgarden.
"Laura's broad corporate experience will bring a tremendous amount of value to the group across multiple industries and sectors," says Bloomgarden. "She has an impressive background delivering award-winning work for clients, and being able to work across multiple disciplines, including financial and crisis communications, a rapidly growing area of our corporate business."
Ryan will also play a role in building current business and leading new business opportunities.
"Ruder Finn has an enviable track record in corporate communications and a strong reputation amongst top executives and today's leading companies and organizations," says Ryan. "I'm thrilled to be joining such an established corporate team and look forward to contributing my background and expertise in building and protecting corporate reputation."
About Ruder Finn
Ruder Finn, Inc. is one of the world's largest independent global communications and creative agencies with dual headquarters in the United States and China. Founded in 1948, Ruder Finn serves the global and local communication needs of over 250 corporations, governments, not-for-profit organizations, and start-ups. The agency is organized around four strategic pillars that reflect its core areas of expertise: Health & Wellness, Corporate Reputation & Transformation, Technology & Innovation, and Consumer Connections. RFI Studios, the agency's full-service digital practice, leads the industry in designing and developing internal collaboration platforms, building conversations, and communities around brands, and staying top-of-mind in the world of mobile applications. For more information, visit www.ruderfinn.com .
Media Contact
Sarah Coles
212.593.6393
coless@ruderfinn.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ruder-finn-strengthens-corporate-communications-leadership-with-industry-veteran-laura-ryan-executive-vice-president-300577266.html
SOURCE Ruder Finn