Jeffrey Thornton to focus on equity and real estate strategies
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bailard, Inc. is pleased to announce that Jeffrey Thornton has joined the firm as senior vice president and director of institutional sales. In this role, Jeff is responsible for expanding Bailard’s business relationships with institutional investors and investment consultants. Jeff will primarily focus on representing Bailard Institutional’s several well-established equity strategies—spanning small value , technology and non-U.S. equities —as well as a core-plus real estate strategy .
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006340/en/
Jeff Thornton, Senior Vice President and Director of Institutional Sales, Bailard, Inc. (Photo: Business Wire)
“As our institutional strategies continue to garner attention and growth from institutional investors, we need a strong lead to govern our business development efforts,” said Peter M. Hill, Bailard’s chief executive officer. “From overseeing global sales and marketing at RCM Global Investors to his consulting experience, Jeff is a great addition to the team.”
“Bailard’s culture, vetted fundamental and quantitative research processes, track record and growing institutional presence drew me to the company. Bailard has high potential,” said Jeff Thornton. “I look forward to help the firm’s growth accelerate and feel fortunate to be a part of Bailard.”
Before joining Bailard, Jeff was an independent advisor and consultant representing asset managers seeking institutional capital sources. Prior to that, he was head of institutional sales and marketing at LMCG. Previously, Jeffrey spent 14 years at RCM Global Investors (now Allianz Global Investors) as director of marketing and sales. Jeff received his Bachelor’s degree in political science from the University of California, Los Angeles. Outside of work, Jeff is a board member and the treasurer of Big Brothers and Big Sisters for North Lake Tahoe and Nevada County.
About Bailard, Inc.
Founded in 1969, Bailard is a majority employee-owned institutional asset management and wealth advisory firm, entrusted with $4 billion in assets under management. With 67 employees and its headquarters in Foster City, California with a second satellite office in San Francisco, California, Bailard’s core values of openness, fairness, excellence and courage sustain Bailard’s reputation for employee allegiance and client satisfaction.
Bailard Institutional, a division within Bailard, is a discretionary institutional asset manager that offers single asset class strategies ranging from long-only equity and fixed income strategies to alternative strategies and private real estate. Bailard Wealth Management, a division within Bailard, provides investment advisory and financial planning services to investors seeking multi-asset diversification, including a dedicated socially responsible investing service.*
For more information about Bailard, Inc., please visit www.bailard.com or contact Sonya Thadhani, executive vice president and chief operating officer, at (650) 571-5800 or sthadhani@bailard.com .
* All investments involve a risk of loss. There is no guarantee any strategy will achieve its objectives. Bailard will not offer advice in any jurisdiction where it is prohibited from doing so. Real estate and alternative investments have significant specific risks and are not appropriate for all investors.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006340/en/
Bailard, Inc.
Sonya Thadhani, 650-571-5800
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
sthadhani@bailard.com
Source: Bailard, Inc.