MCLEAN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Altamira Technologies Corporation, a leading provider of technology solutions to the US Defense, Intelligence, and Homeland Security Communities, announced today the appointment of Jonathan Moneymaker as President.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005196/en/
Jonathan Moneymaker Appointed as President, Altamira Technologies (Photo: Business Wire)
Jonathan will lead the integrated Strategy, Operations, and Sales team overseeing all customer delivery and growth functions for the company. Jonathan joined Altamira in 2014 as Executive Vice President & Chief Strategy Officer and has played a lead role in the double digit growth the company experienced in both 2016 and 2017 as well as leading both its acquisitions of 2016. He has been the champion for numerous market initiatives which, when combined, resulted in Altamira being selected as the GovCon Contractor of the Year in 2017 in the $75-$300M category. Jonathan has extensive experience and a proven track record in support of the national security mission serving as an executive at the Fortune 50 Boeing Company as well as west coast based technology start-ups. Jonathan reports to Ted Davies, Altamira’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
“I’m very excited to announce Jonathan’s promotion to President", said Altamira CEO Ted Davies. “Jonathan’s energy and leadership are contagious and his commitment to both the national security mission and the success of our business is unmatched. I look forward to continuing to work with Jonathan as we build Altamira and deliver world class services to the national security community.”
About Altamira
Altamira Technologies is a best-in-class innovation partner to the defense, intelligence, and homeland security communities. Altamira provides customers innovations in Data Analytics including Data Science and Intel Operations and Advanced Engineering including R&D, Software Development, and Offensive/Defensive Cyber. Altamira harnesses the brightest minds to drive the advancement of mission-focused solutions addressing their customers’ most challenging problems from research through development and into operations.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005196/en/
Altamira Technologies
Megan Hughes, 703-813-2100
marketing@altamiracorp.com
Source: Altamira Technologies