LOS ANGELES, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- JLT Specialty USA, a U.S. subsidiary of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc. (JLT), the leading global specialist risk advisor and broker, is pleased to announce the appointment Art Morgenstein as Senior Vice President.
Based in Los Angeles, Art Morgenstein will be primarily responsible for client servicing and growth initiatives in the West, taking advantage of JLT’s industry and product specialties.
Art brings to JLT over 38 years of insurance industry experience and has held a number of senior leadership, underwriting and account executive positions at various international brokerage firms and insurance carriers. He joins JLT from Aon plc, where he served as Senior Vice President. Within this role, he focused on global and enterprise risk management with expertise in the areas of risk financing, assessment, and in the design and implementation of property, casualty, professional liability programs for complex risks in the retail, hospitality, private equity, manufacturing, technology, real estate and healthcare industries.
“We are delighted that Art has joined JLT. His experience will be invaluable to our clients and our team throughout the U.S.,” said Mike Rice, CEO at JLT Specialty USA. “Art’s appointment is a reflection of our on-going commitment to hire the best talent available in our industry.”
Art is an honor’s graduate from the State University of New York at Stony Brook with a B.S. in Biology and a Masters of Business Administration in Finance from Pepperdine University.
He is a Certified Insurance Counselor and an active member of the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of California and Risk and Insurance Management Society.
JLT encourages any potential applicants interested in rapidly developing their careers and becoming part of its U.S. Specialty team to contact Karen Isaacs at 215-309-4601, karen.isaacs@jltholdings.com .
JLT ENQUIRIES:
Name: Ashely Deal, VP of Marketing
Phone: (310) 266-9464
Email: ashely.deal@jltus.com
NOTES TO EDITORS:
About Jardine Lloyd Thompson (JLT.L)
Jardine Lloyd Thompson is one of the world’s leading providers of insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and associated services. JLT’s client proposition is built upon its deep specialist knowledge, client advocacy, tailored advice and service excellence.
JLT is Quote: d on the London Stock Exchange and owns offices in 40 territories with more than 10,600 employees. Supported by the JLT International Network, it offers risk management and employee benefit solutions in 135 countries.
For further information about JLT, please visit our website www.jlt.com and follow us on LinkedIn at JLT Group and Twitter @JLTGroup.
About JLT Specialty USA
JLT Specialty USA is the U.S. platform of the leading specialty business advisory firm, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group. Our experts have deep industry and product experience serving leading U.S. and global firms. Our key to client success is our freedom to be creative, collaborative, and analytical while challenging conventions, redefining problems, creating new analytical insights, and exploring new boundaries to deliver solutions for each client’s unique business and risks.
For further information about JLT, please visit our website www.jltus.com and follow us on LinkedIn at JLT Specialty USA and Twitter @JLTSpecialtyUSA .
Source:JLT Specialty Insurance Services Inc.