Whether you're snowed in at home or laying out on a beach, not every day out of the office requires a full day off. In fact, a survey conducted by the career site FlexJobs found remote work to be a desired perk among many professionals — 81 percent said it's the type of work flexibility they want most.
However, 95 percent of remote positions still have location requirements that limit where employees can work.
To help job seekers find a position that offers the full flexibility of being able to work from anywhere, FlexJobs has compiled a list of the top companies that offered the most work-from-anywhere jobs in 2017.
Maskot | Getty Images 1. PRA Health Sciences
Available jobs include: Project manager and operational recruitment manager
2. CyraCom
Available jobs include: Interpreter in Mandarin, Taiwanese, Cambodian and other languages
3. UnitedHealth Group
Available jobs include: Clinical administrative coordinator and senior provider data analyst
4. SAP
Available jobs include: Marketing execution coordinator and customer engagement manager
5. Fiserv
Available jobs include: Project manager and client service executive
Waring Abbott | Getty Images One of the nations' new popular 'workplaces': the Dean and DeLuca coffee shop in New York City. 6. Anthem, Inc .
Available jobs include: Marketing manager and behavioral health case manager
7. WeightNot
Available jobs include: Cloud-based systems administrator and nutrition and weight loss coach
8. Western Governors University
Available jobs include: Program mentor and temporary benefits administrator
9. Grand Canyon University
Available jobs include: University development counselor and account executive
10. Chamberlain College of Nursing
Available jobs include: Online visiting professor and faculty development specialist
show chapters Here are the highest paying jobs with the fastest growth 8:14 AM ET Tue, 23 May 2017 | 00:54 11. BCD Travel
Available jobs include: Global account manager and corporate travel consultant
12. Walden University
Available jobs include: Academic program coordinator and academic residency coordinator
13. PARAXEL
Available jobs include: Clinical site manager and senior clinical research associate
14. Salesforce
Available jobs include: Area vice president and lead solution engineer
15. nThrive
Available jobs include: Cancer registry specialist and interactive HTML5 developer
show chapters The highest paying jobs that don't require a master's degree 12:15 PM ET Fri, 13 Jan 2017 | 00:51 16. Toptal
Available jobs include: Senior technical talent sourcer and business talent sourcer
17. Appen
Available jobs include: French medical annotator and English transcriber
18. SecureWorks
Available jobs include: Security architect and senior security systems advisor
19. InVision
Available jobs include: Community moderator and recruiting coordinator
20. Perficient
Available jobs include: Director of strategy and innovation and lead salesforce business consultant
show chapters Highest-paying jobs for women 12:33 PM ET Wed, 2 Nov 2016 | 00:50 21. Conduent
Available jobs include: Customer care associate and bilingual customer care agent
22. Wells Fargo
Available jobs include: Marketing data architect and application systems engineer
23. Connections Education
Available jobs include: Secondary social studies teacher and payroll specialist
24. Rasmussen College
Available jobs include: Adjunct online instructor and support specialist
25. Pharmaceutical Product Development
Available jobs include: Clinical research associate and proposal manager
Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook
Don't miss:
10 work-from-home companies that offer unlimited paid time off
10 work-from-home jobs where you can earn at least $100,000
13 great work-from-home jobs for people who love sports
show chapters How to make six figures from home 1:22 PM ET Wed, 16 March 2016