HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Cactus, Inc. (NYSE: WHD) (“Cactus”) announced today that it has launched an initial public offering of 21,428,571 shares of its Class A common stock at an anticipated initial offering price between $16.00 and $19.00 per share pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (the “Registration Statement”) filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In addition, Cactus intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 3,214,285 shares of Cactus’ Class A common stock at the initial public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The shares have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “WHD”.
Citigroup and Credit Suisse are acting as joint book-running managers. Simmons & Company International, Energy Specialists of Piper Jaffray; J.P. Morgan; and BofA Merrill Lynch are also acting as book-runners. Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co.; Barclays; RBC Capital Markets; Raymond James; and Scotia Howard Weil are acting as co-managers.
The offering of these securities will be made only by means of a prospectus that meets the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from:
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Attention: Broadridge Financial Solutions 1155 Long Island Avenue Edgewood, New York 11717 Telephone: (800) 831-9146 prospectus@citi.com
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC Attention: Prospectus Department One Madison Avenue New York, New York 10010 Telephone: (800) 221-1037 newyork.prospectus@credit-suisse.com
About Cactus, Inc.
Cactus, Inc. designs, manufactures, sells and rents a range of highly-engineered wellheads and pressure control equipment. Its products are sold and rented principally for onshore unconventional oil and gas wells and are utilized during the drilling, completion (including fracturing) and production phases of its customers' wells. In addition, it provides field services for all its products and rental items to assist with the installation, maintenance and handling of the wellhead and pressure control equipment. Cactus, Inc. operates 14 service centers in the United States, which are strategically located in the key oil and gas producing regions, including the Permian, SCOOP/STACK, Marcellus, Utica, Eagle Ford and Bakken, among other areas, and one service center in Eastern Australia.
Important Information
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. The registration statement may be obtained free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov under “Cactus, Inc.” This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the size, timing or results of the initial public offering, represent Cactus’ expectations or beliefs concerning future events, and it is possible that the results described in this press release will not be achieved. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of Cactus’ control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and, except as required by law, Cactus does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Cactus to predict all such factors. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in the prospectus filed with the SEC in connection with Cactus’ initial public offering. The risk factors and other factors noted in Cactus’ prospectus could cause its actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005530/en/
Cactus, Inc.
Stephen Tadlock, (713) 396-5748
Vice President of Corporate Services
IR@cactuswhd.com
Source: Cactus, Inc.