CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE: SEE ) announced today that it will release its fourth quarter and full year 2017 results at approximately 7:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, February 8, 2018 and will host a conference call and webcast later that morning at 10:00 a.m. (ET).
Ted Doheny, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Bill Stiehl, Acting Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller will conduct the investor conference call. The conference call will be webcast live on the Investor Relations home page at www.sealedair.com/investors . A replay of the webcast will also be available thereafter.
Investors who cannot access the webcast may listen to the conference call live via telephone by dialing (855) 472-5411 (domestic) or (330) 863-3389 (international) and use the participant code 4975676. Telephonic replay of the webcast will be available starting at 1:00 p.m. (ET) on Thursday, February 8, 2018 and end on Saturday, March 10, 2018 at 1:00 p.m. (ET). To listen to the replay, please dial (855) 859-2056 (domestic) or (404) 537-3406 (international) and use the confirmation code 4975676.
Business
Sealed Air Corporation is a knowledge-based company focused on packaging solutions that help our customers achieve their sustainability goals in the face of today’s biggest social and environmental challenges. Our portfolio of widely recognized brands, including Cryovac ® brand food packaging solutions, Bubble Wrap ® brand cushioning, enable a safer and less wasteful food supply chain and protect valuable goods shipped around the world. Sealed Air generated $4.2 billion in sales in 2016 and has approximately 14,000 employees who serve customers in 117 countries. To learn more, visit www.sealedair.com .
Website Information
We routinely post important information for investors on our website, www.sealedair.com , in the "Investor Relations" section. We use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 concerning our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as “anticipates,” “believes,” “plan,” “assumes,” “could,” “should,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “potential,” “seek,” “predict,” “may,” “will” and similar references to future periods. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this press release regarding our strategies, prospects, financial condition, operations, costs, plans and objectives are forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding expected future operating results, expectations regarding the results of restructuring and other programs, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and expectations of the effect on our financial condition of claims, litigation, environmental costs, contingent liabilities and governmental and regulatory investigations and proceedings. The following are important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward looking statements: the tax benefits associated with the Settlement agreement (as defined in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K), global economic and political conditions, changes in our credit ratings, changes in raw material pricing and availability, changes in energy costs, competitive conditions, the success of our financial growth, profitability, cash generation and manufacturing strategies and our cost reduction and productivity efforts, the success of new product offerings, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, pandemics, consumer preferences, environmental matters, regulatory actions and legal matters, and the other information referenced in the “Risk Factors” section appearing in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement made by us is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006731/en/
Sealed Air Corporation
Investors:
Lori Chaitman, 704-503-8841
or
Media:
Julianna Jacobson, 571-236-4256
Source: Sealed Air Corporation