Telecom services leader taps industry veteran Alex Berry to Head Business Unit
BRIDGEWATER, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- iconectiv, an authoritative partner of the global communications industry connecting more than two billion people every day, has named veteran software, services and communications industry executive Alex Berry as the Executive Vice President of its Information Solutions Business Unit.
Berry will oversee all business operations for the company’s international network and operations management, fraud and identity and registry businesses. This includes leading development, product management, business development, channel and alliances, product marketing and sales worldwide. With more than 20 years of executive leadership experience in the telecommunications and information technology industries, Berry brings a proven ability to drive strategic growth and business expansion.
“With a successful track record of growing global businesses, Alex is perfectly suited to leverage our robust product portfolio, execute on our strategy and drive new areas of opportunity,” said Richard Jacowleff, CEO, iconectiv. “His leadership and strategic abilities will be essential to realizing our vision of a world where accessing and exchanging information is simple, seamless and secure.”
Prior to iconectiv, Berry served as Chief Operating Officer and President of North America for Back Office Associates, a worldwide leader in information governance and data migration solutions. Previously, he served in executive leadership positions for a global information services provider, overseeing all strategic sales initiatives, professional services, business development, channel and alliances, field sales operations, customer support and field marketing. He also led global sales and client services for several years with a major provider of business process outsourcing and call center management.
“With its highly talented team, powerful suite of products, and strong financials and market presence, I’m impressed with the many growth opportunities at iconectiv,” Berry said. “I look forward to building upon this foundation in fast-growing markets and leveraging the exceptional reputation we have for customer satisfaction, delivery and overall excellence.”
[Suggested Tweet] @iconectiv to pursue business growth initiatives with veteran #telecom executive Alex Berry
About iconectiv
At iconectiv, we envision a world without boundaries, where the ability to access and exchange information is simple, secure and seamless. As the authoritative partner of the communications industry for more than 30 years, our market-leading solutions enable the interconnection of networks, devices, and applications for more than two billion people every day. Working closely with private, government and non-governmental organizations, iconectiv has intimate knowledge of the intricacies and complexities of creating, operating and securing the telecommunications infrastructure for service providers, governments and enterprises. iconectiv provides network and operations management, numbering, registry, messaging and fraud and identity solutions to more than 1,200 customers globally. A US-based company, Telcordia Technologies, does business as iconectiv. For more information, visit www.iconectiv.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005613/en/
iconectiv
Sharon Oddy
+1-732-699-5130/908-809-2268
soddy@iconectiv.com
or
Global Results Communications
Mike Kilroy/Valerie Christopherson
+1-949-689-9550
iconectiv@globalresultspr.com
Source: iconectiv