MILWAUKEE, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Danny L. Cunningham, retired partner and chief risk officer of Deloitte & Touche LLP, has been appointed to the board of directors of WEC Energy Group (NYSE: WEC), effective immediately, and will serve on the Audit and Oversight Committee.
Cunningham, 62, who retired in 2016, had previously served Deloitte since 2002. Prior to joining Deloitte, he was a partner at Arthur Andersen, where he worked from 1980 to 2002. He has more than 30 years of experience serving public audit clients in a broad array of industries, including manufacturing, printing, software and financial services. He received his bachelor's degree in accounting from The Ohio State University and a master's in business administration from the University of Wisconsin.
Cunningham currently serves as a member of the board of directors and Chair of the Audit Committee of Actuant Corp. He qualifies as an independent director under WEC Energy Group's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
"I'm delighted that Danny has agreed to join the WEC Energy Group board of directors. His extensive accounting expertise, broad knowledge of business issues and in-depth experience with enterprise risk management will add to the strength of our board as well as our Audit and Oversight Committee," said Gale Klappa, chairman and chief executive officer of WEC Energy Group.
WEC Energy Group (NYSE: WEC), based in Milwaukee, is one of the nation's premier energy companies, serving 4.4 million customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan and Minnesota.
The company's principal utilities are We Energies, Wisconsin Public Service, Peoples Gas, North Shore Gas, Michigan Gas Utilities, Minnesota Energy Resources and Upper Michigan Energy Resources. The company's other major subsidiary, We Power, designs, builds and owns electric generating plants.
WEC Energy Group ( wecenergygroup.com ), a component of the S&P 500, has approximately 55,000 stockholders of record, 8,500 employees, and more than $30 billion in assets.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cunningham-elected-to-wec-energy-group-board-of-directors-300580879.html
SOURCE WEC Energy Group