BALTIMORE, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- After a nationwide search, Sheppard Pratt Health System—the largest private, non-profit provider of mental health, substance use, special education, and social services in the country—has named Donna Richardson, MBA, vice president and chief development officer, effective January 2.
Richardson will direct development for Sheppard Pratt, providing strategic leadership to support the organization's mission. She will also leverage philanthropy to enhance Sheppard Pratt's capacity to innovate care.
"There has never been a greater need for high-quality mental health and addiction services as there is currently in our nation," said Dr. Harsh K. Trivedi, president and CEO of Sheppard Pratt Health System. "Donna has a proven track record when it comes to raising funds for complex, highly reputable health systems. She will revolutionize the services we are able to offer by tapping into donors' passions and creating impactful new programs that provide life-saving care."
Richardson brings to the position over 20 years of extensive experience leading development for high-profile healthcare organizations. Most recently, Richardson was senior vice president of major and principal gifts for the Stanford-affiliated Lucille Packard Foundation for Children's Health in Palo Alto, CA. In this position, she secured the largest individual donation in the history of the Foundation. Prior to joining the Packard Foundation, Richardson served as associate vice president of development for Harvard-affiliated Children's Hospital Boston. Prior to this role, she acted as senior major gifts officer at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, MA.
"I am thrilled to join the Sheppard Pratt family," said Donna Richardson. "Sheppard Pratt would not be where it is today without the generosity of our donors. I look forward to contributing to the organization's future success and growth by bringing philanthropists, leaders, and community members together to expand our mission to deliver the highest quality, most compassionate care."
Richardson earned a bachelor's degree in Sociology from Boston College in Boston, MA, and a master's degree in Business from Bentley College in Waltham, MA.
About Sheppard Pratt Health System
Sheppard Pratt Health System is the largest private, non-profit provider of mental health, substance use, special education, and social services in the country. A nationwide resource, Sheppard Pratt provides 2.3 million services annually across a comprehensive continuum of care. Since its founding in 1853, Sheppard Pratt has been innovating the field through research, best practice implementation, and a focus on improving the quality of mental health care on a global level. Sheppard Pratt has been consistently ranked as a top national psychiatric hospital by U.S. News & World Report for the past 27 years.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sheppard-pratt-health-system-names-donna-richardson-vice-president-and-chief-development-officer-300576431.html
SOURCE Sheppard Pratt Health System