ATLANTA & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intercontinental Exchange (NYSE:ICE), a leading operator of global exchanges and clearing houses and provider of data and listings services, announced it has completed its acquisition of Virtu BondPoint from Virtu Financial for $400 million in cash.
“We are excited about the addition of BondPoint and the ability to offer additional fixed income execution services,” said ICE President Ben Jackson. “BondPoint is an integrated, automated platform offering one of the broadest sets of fixed income instruments. Combined with our fixed income data and transaction solutions, we will expand our ability to meet the rising global demand for efficiency and information.”
BondPoint is a leading provider of electronic fixed income trading solutions for the buy-side and sell-side offering access to centralized liquidity and automated trade execution services through its alternative trading system (ATS) linking more than 500 financial services firms. BondPoint will become part of ICE’s fixed income trading and data solutions that includes Creditex for CDS markets, ICE Credit Trade for dealer to dealer corporate bond trading, NYSE Bonds for retail bond trading, BondEdge for bond portfolio analytics and ICE’s award-winning fixed income pricing and evaluations for approximately 2.7 million securities, reference data for more than 10 million financial instruments and analytics.
About Intercontinental Exchange
Intercontinental Exchange (NYSE:ICE) is a Fortune 500 company that operates a leading network of global futures , equity and equity options exchanges, as well as global clearing and data services across financial and commodity markets. The New York Stock Exchange is the world leader in capital raising, listings and equities trading.
Trademarks of ICE and/or its affiliates include Intercontinental Exchange, ICE, ICE block design, NYSE and New York Stock Exchange. Information regarding additional trademarks and intellectual property rights of Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. and/or its affiliates is located at www.intercontinentalexchange.com/terms-of-use . Key Information Documents for certain products covered by the EU Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation can be accessed on the relevant exchange website under the heading “Key information Documents (KIDS)”.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 -- Statements in this press release regarding ICE's business that are not historical facts are " " that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the , see ICE's Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC on February 7, 2017.
SOURCE: Intercontinental Exchange
ICE- CORP
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005194/en/
Media Contact:
Damon Leavell
Damon.Leavell@theice.com
212-323-8587
Investor Contact:
Warren Gardiner
Warren.Gardiner@theice.com
770-835-0114
Source: Intercontinental Exchange