IRVINE, CA , Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Last year Gold Mining USA, Inc. (OTC Pink: GMUI) filed all the necessary paperwork with FINRA to complete the name and ticker symbol change to Vita Mobile Systems, Inc. (OTC Pink: VMSI). We are pleased to announce that the name change to Vita Mobile Systems, Inc. has been finalized and the new symbol VMSI will be effective starting Wednesday, January 31, 2018.
The company completed a crucial step towards the new direction of the company and it prepares for more exciting events ahead. Vita Mobile Systems, Inc. aims to up list to the OTCQX in the future. In addition, the company’s highly anticipated new social media app named VITA has been undergoing beta testing to prepare for its US launch on Google Play and the Apple iTunes stores.
“We anticipate VITA to be the next largest disrupter in the social media evolution and a leader in artificial intelligence and augmented reality with the tools and targeted data that media and advertising campaigns need to maximize their value.” Said Sean Guerrero, CEO – Vita Mobile Systems, Inc.
About VITA Mobile Systems ( www.vitamobilesystems.com )
VITA Mobile Systems is an open network app company focusing on digital imaging and technology in mobile devices. Vita Mobile Systems is currently finalizing "VITA" for release on both IOS and Android. VITA is an open network social platform that allows users to easily take unfiltered pictures and videos that organically illustrate, record, and share life's events, creating an authentic immersive crowd-sourced view of everyday life. The purpose of VITA is to allow users to experience events, places, landmarks, and more, from the perspective of the people that are attending, or are physically there. VITA is expected to generate not only traditional revenue with picture and video page views, but also more lucrative, hyper-local advertising as well as 2-D and 3-D augmented reality advertising.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The words or phrases "would be," "will allow," "intends to," "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimate," "project," or similar expressions are intended to identify "forward-looking statements." Actual results could differ materially from those projected by VITA. The public filings, if any, of GMUI may be accessed at www.otcmarkets.com . Statements made herein are as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. VITA cautions readers not to place reliance on such statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, VITA does not undertake, and VITA specifically disclaims any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement.
Contact Information: Vita Mobile Systems, Inc. 2640 Main St, Irvine, CA 92614 949-864-6902 info@vitamobilesystems.com Investor Relations: 949-864-6902 ir@vitamobilesystems.com
Source:Vita Mobile Systems, Inc.