Altima is now part of Accenture Interactive
PARIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Accenture (NYSE:ACN) has completed its acquisition of Altima , a full-service digital commerce agency, headquartered in France.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005162/en/
Leading eCommerce agency, Altima, is now part of Accenture Interactive. (Graphic: Business Wire)
The acquisition, first announced on October 17, expands Accenture Interactive ’s capabilities in France and other key markets to help brands attract and retain customers through differentiated and compelling digital experiences. Terms of the transaction are not being disclosed.
Altima is known for creating engaging customer experiences for eCommerce, mobile and in-store commerce for prestigious French and global brands . Altima’s capabilities span experience strategy, user experience design, digital marketing services and multichannel commerce platform implementation. The agency, founded in 1997, is headquartered in Roubaix, France, and has offices in Paris, Lyon, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Montréal, and New York.
“We’re thrilled to have Altima join the Accenture Interactive family to help us deliver end-to-end digital marketing services in France and beyond,” said Anatoly Roytman, head of Accenture Interactive for Europe, Africa, Middle East and Latin America. “Together, we’re bringing our unique model to the market: part creative agency, part business consultancy and part technology powerhouse – all focused on creating the best customer experiences on the planet.”
“I am very pleased for Altima to join Accenture Interactive, as we share the same vision and passion for designing the future of commerce,” said Arnaud Monnier, CEO of Altima. “We look forward to extending our ideas across the entire customer experience, offering clients connected creativity. We believe this is a genuinely game-changing moment for our clients and for our team, who will now have even greater opportunity to work with leading global brands across international markets.”
The acquisition follows Accenture's recent announcement of plans to acquire Irish creative agency, Rothco. With a pedigree for award-winning campaigns, Rothco has been recognized with Cannes Lions for two consecutive years and further bolsters Accenture Interactive’s full-service digital customer experience capabilities in Europe.
About Accenture
Accenture is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations. Combining unmatched experience and specialized skills across more than 40 industries and all business functions – underpinned by the world’s largest delivery network – Accenture works at the intersection of business and technology to help clients improve their performance and create sustainable value for their stakeholders. With approximately 435,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries, Accenture drives innovation to improve the way the world works and lives. Visit us at www.accenture.com .
Accenture Interactive helps the world’s leading brands transform their customer experiences across the entire customer journey. Through our connected offerings in design, marketing, content and commerce, we create new ways to win in today’s experience-led economy. Accenture Interactive is ranked the world’s largest digital agency in the latest Ad Age Agency Report. To learn more, follow us @ accentureACTIVE and visit www.accentureinteractive.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements in this news release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “positioned,” “outlook” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These include, without limitation, risks that: the transaction might not achieve the anticipated benefits for Accenture; Accenture’s results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on the company’s clients’ businesses and levels of business activity; Accenture’s business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for the company’s services and solutions including through the adaptation and expansion of its services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the changing technological environment could materially affect the company’s results of operations; if Accenture is unable to keep its supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, the company’s business, the utilization rate of the company’s professionals and the company’s results of operations may be materially adversely affected; Accenture could have liability or Accenture’s reputation could be damaged if the company fails to protect client and/or company data from security breaches or cyberattacks; the markets in which Accenture operates are highly competitive, and Accenture might not be able to compete effectively; Accenture’s profitability could materially suffer if the company is unable to obtain favorable pricing for its services and solutions, if the company is unable to remain competitive, if its cost-management strategies are unsuccessful or if it experiences delivery inefficiencies; changes in Accenture’s level of taxes, as well as audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition; Accenture’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; Accenture’s business could be materially adversely affected if the company incurs legal liability; Accenture’s work with government clients exposes the company to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment; Accenture might not be successful at identifying, acquiring, investing in or integrating businesses, entering into joint ventures or divesting businesses; Accenture’s global delivery capability is concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose it to operational risks; as a result of Accenture’s geographically diverse operations and its growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, the company is more susceptible to certain risks; adverse changes to Acc