January 18, 2018 / 10:05 PM / Updated 3 hours ago Sudanese authorities detain Reuters, AFP reporters in Khartoum Reuters Staff 2 Min Read 
CAIRO (Reuters) - Sudanese authorities have detained a Reuters stringer and an AFP reporter who were covering protests in the capital Khartoum, the external information council, which deals with foreign media organisations, said. 
Reuters last had contact with its stringer early on Wednesday before he went to report on the demonstrations, which resulted in clashes between police and protesters. Sudan has seen a wave of unrest over soaring living costs. 
An official in the external information council, contacted by Reuters, did not say whether charges would be brought against the two Sudanese journalists. The official had earlier said they would be released early on Thursday. 
“We do not know the circumstances of the detention and are actively seeking additional information about the situation,” a Reuters spokesperson said. 
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said five local journalists had also been arrested and called for the immediate release of all the reporters. 
“By arresting and intimidating journalists, confiscating newspapers and attempting to censor news dissemination, the Sudanese authorities keep trying to get journalists to stick to the official narrative or pay the price,” CPJ Middle East and North Africa programme coordinator Sherif Mansour said in a statement. 
The Sudanese authorities arrested the journalists while they were reporting on demonstrations in Khartoum, according to the statement, which cited news reports and the independent Sudanese Journalists Network. 
The Sudanese official declined to comment on the CPJ report. 
AFP confirmed the detention of one of its journalists. In an article, the news agency said its management strongly condemned the arrest and asked for his immediate release. 
Protests and clashes with security forces broke out across Sudan this month after Khartoum imposed tough economic measures in line with recommendations by the International Monetary Fund. Reporting by Samia Nakhoul and John Davison; Editing by Nick Tattersall and Richard Balmforth