0 COMMENTS Good morning. As the Super Bowl inches closer, we’re starting to get more of an idea about what ads the big game will have in store. Pepsi, a Super Bowl stalwart, is sure to turn heads with its spot this year, which features Cindy Crawford recreating her famous big game ad from 1992 . Perhaps Ms. Crawford’s appearance also will go a little way toward leveling the ratio of men to women featured in starring roles in Super Bowl spots. Ad Age reports that 76% of these ads over the past decade featured men as the main character .
THE FACBOOKALYPSE Mark Zuckerberg wasted no time in getting started on his 2018 resolution to “fix” Facebook. A big change is coming to the algorithm that will see Facebook favor posts shared and discussed among users and their friends in the news feed over content from publishers and brands, Digiday first reported . It’s all about focusing on “meaningful interaction” over “passive content,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in an interview with the New York Times. Social media and audience development teams at newsrooms will be scrambling into crisis meetings today. It’ll be especially fraught among publishers who get heaps of referral traffic from Facebook from straight news stories—important journalism that drives clicks, but that doesn’t attract reams of comments quite like a video of a dog that’s learned how to sled down a hill by itself . This tweet from the Verge’s Silicon Valley editor, Casey Newton, sums up the reckoning for media organizations: “So many publishers think they have audiences, when what they really have is traffic. I think we’re about to find out who has an audience.”
—Raise the Roof—
Never fear! One assumes paid-for ads still provide meaningful interactions and aren’t consumed passively whatsoever. Snark aside, what is the Great Algo Change of 2018 going to mean for marketers, who already have seen the organic reach of their Facebook posts diminish over the years? Keep an eye on ad load. Mr. Zuckerberg wrote Thursday that he expects “the time people spend on Facebook will go down,” but that users’ time there will be “more valuable.” In an auction-based, largely mobile environment where there isn’t a lot of real estate to clutter with more ad formats, that’s probably going to mean fewer, higher-value ads in the news feed, according to Paul Mead, chairman of London-based media agency VCCP Media. “It’s simple mathematics for a display business: Less time on Facebook and fewer ads can only mean that the ads that do show are more expensive,” Mr. Mead told me.
Bowling For Super CMO Today’s Suzanne Vranica reports : NBC hopes viewers won’t touch their TV remotes next month. The network is gearing up for a busy period, with Super Bowl LII on Feb. 4 and the Winter Olympics starting Feb. 9. With the cost of sports rights sky high, there is plenty of pressure on the network. So far, NBC is spinning a good tale. Thursday, the network said it expects to bring in about $1.4 billion in national ad revenue from the two events. That includes more than $900 million from the Olympics, well above the roughly $800 million it garnered from the Sochi Winter Games in 2014. As for the Super Bowl, NBC said 30-second spots are selling for more than $5 million, with fewer than 10 still available. Despite being one of the last mass-reach audience vehicles, drawing more than 100 million viewers, the Super Bowl has lost a tad of its sheen. Super Bowl commercials used to sell out months in advance, but over the past few years, ad buyers say they have been able to secure ad time just days before the event.
Everything in Moderation, Including Moderation Wheels on suitcases were such an obvious invention, it seems incredible people were heaving around luggage on their shoulders for so long. And perhaps when we look back at the history of Google Preferred—the premium ad program that lets big-budget advertisers target only the top 5% most-popular content on YouTube—we’ll find it equally remarkable YouTube didn’t check those videos for unsavory content (like actual human dead bodies ) first. But here we are. Bloomberg reported Thursday that Google soon plans to begin vetting Google Preferred videos . “We are discussing and seeking feedback from our brand partners on ways to offer them even more assurances for what they buy in the upfronts,” a Google spokeswoman said in a statement. Recode suggests the new, safer tier of videos is likely to benefit established media companies over vloggers as they’re probably deemed more trustworthy in the eyes of advertisers. Some good news for publishers at last!
Best of the rest The Justice Department’s antitrust case against AT&T’s bid for Time Warner is setting its sights on the small screen. [ WSJ ]
It doesn’t look as if we’re going to see paid-for ads on Amazon’s Alexa anytime soon, according to conversations the e-commerce giant has been having with agencies. (Amazon has also been saying publicly that it isn’t bringing advertising to Alexa.) [ Digiday ]
Paramount has hired David Sameth as its president of worldwide marketing. Mr. Sameth joins Paramount from Disney, where he was executive vice president and head of theatrical marketing for Disney Animation Studios and Pixar. [ Hollywood Reporte r ]
The Young Turks Network has hired Deanna Brown as its first president. Ms. Brown was most recently entrepreneur in residence at Broadway Video and before that served as CEO of Federated Media. [ Variety ]
A look at how a technique called sandboxing can help publishers ward off malicious mobile redirect ads. [ Admonsters ]
Arjuna Capital and the New York State Common Retirement Fund co-filed shareholder resolutions at Facebook and Twitter, urging them to do more to combat online harassment. [ WSJ ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com