SAN RAMON, Calif., Jan. 15, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WANdisco (LSE:WAND), the Live Data company, announced today the addition of Ramki Thurimella Ph.D as VP of Research in the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. Ramki joins the company with extensive experience in algorithm design and information security. Prior to joining WANdisco he was Director of Cybersecurity and the Chair of Computer Science at the University of Denver where he conducted sponsored research for the National Science Foundation in algorithms and cybersecurity.
Ramki will be working with Chief Scientist, Inventor and Co-Founder, Dr Yeturu Aahlad Ph.D, in Fusion Kernel, WANdisco’s technology incubator, which looks at new use cases for the Company’s patented Distributed Coordination Engine™ (DConE) and their transformation into successful commercial products.
David Richards, CEO and Co-Founder of WANdisco said:
“I am delighted Ramki has joined WANdisco to explore new applications for our unique replication technology. With the growth of distributed ledger technologies such as Blockchain, I have no doubt that Ramki’s background in encryption will be invaluable as we look to address challenges prevalent in new distributed computing applications.”
Ramki Thurimella, VP of Research said:
“I’m joining WANdisco at a true industry inflection point where the potential of its patented Distributed Coordination Engine technology is only just beginning to be realized. I believe there are many other innovative products we can bring to market to complement the company’s existing Source Code Management and Big Data and Cloud portfolios.”
For further information, please contact:
Alexandra Gee
VP Marketing & Communications
Alexandra.gee@wandisco.com
About WANdisco
WANdisco is shaping the future of data infrastructure with its groundbreaking Live Data platform, enabling companies to put all their data to work for the business – all the time, at any scale.
WANdisco makes data always available, always accurate, and always protected, delivering hyperscale economics to support exponential data growth with the same IT budget. With significant OEM relationships with IBM and Dell EMC and go-to-market partnerships with Amazon Web Services, Cisco, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Oracle and other industry titans – as well as hundreds of customers among the Global 2000 – WANdisco is igniting a Live Data movement worldwide.
Source:WANdisco Inc.