Creators of Brightspot Web Content Management Platform Expand Executive Team to Support Corporate Growth
RESTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Perfect Sense, Inc. , provider of digital content management solutions and services through its platform, Brightspot , today announced it has appointed DC-based software technology enthusiast Jenifer Kern as its first Chief Marketing Officer (CMO).
Kern brings more than 20 years of technology marketing and sales experience with both SaaS and software-enabled services firms. She most recently served as CMO at Tracx, a social media software company in Bethesda, MD. Prior to Tracx, she built the marketing and inside sales function from the ground up at Celerity where she was integral to driving its rapid growth, resulting in the successful sale of the company.
“While technology innovation continues to speed ahead in every industry and for every role, enterprise web content management solutions have lagged behind,” said Kern. “Digital content editors, marketers, and publishers remain frustrated with the speed and ease at which they can manage their web presence in real-time, while taking advantage of the most current technology trends. Perfect Sense created Brightspot to solve that very problem and I couldn’t be more excited to be part of this product and customer-focused company.”
In her role at Perfect Sense, Kern will be responsible for developing sales and marketing strategies and implementing programs to drive scalable revenue growth through its digital content management platform, Brightspot, which will be launching a major upgrade in April, coinciding with the company’s ten-year anniversary .
“What I saw at Perfect Sense was a different kind of company, one that was purpose-built to make people’s lives easier when it comes to managing their digital presence. The origin of the Brightspot name is rooted in our mission to be a consistent bright spot in the daily lives of web publishers, marketers, communicators, developers, and all of its users.”
The appointment of Kern comes one year after the company announced a $22M investment from Carrick Capital Partners. Her hire rounds out a series of strategic executive team hires, including that of CFO Kami Ragsdale earlier in 2017.
Kern is a frequent speaker and has served on several marketing association boards, including Women in Technology (WIT), Marketing Leaders of DC, and AMA-DC. She was recognized as Outstanding Female Speaker of the Year by HubSpot’s INBOUND conference for her presentation “Getting Sales Jazzed about Inbound Marketing.”
About Perfect Sense
Founded in 2008, Perfect Sense was created to deliver enterprise digital platform solutions in a more thoughtful way. Offering a suite of publishing-based products, as well as digital consulting services, Perfect Sense serves many marquee brands including Walmart, Johnson & Johnson, Sotheby’s, Univision, U.S. News, Politico, and Scripps Networks Interactive.
Its digital content management platform, Brightspot , was purposefully built to put flexibility, customization, and sanity back into the lives of web producers - moving away from rigid and inflexible CMS architectures. Its evergreen and modular foundation enables digital content teams to quickly embrace new publishing trends and tools, enabling continuous improvement of their digital properties and customer experiences.
Headquartered in Reston, VA, Perfect Sense maintains a strong focus on giving back to the community by supporting local and national organizations including Special Olympics, The First Tee, YMCA and Troops First Foundation.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005124/en/
Perfect Sense
Kate Nesbitt, 703-956-5479
Director, Communications
knesbitt@perfectsensedigital.com
Source: Perfect Sense