Enterprise video leader adds industry veteran Chance Mason, digital media pioneer, to accelerate revenue growth and drive new customer acquisition
MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Qumu (NASDAQ: QUMU), a leader in enterprise video, announced the hiring of video delivery and new media innovator Chance Mason to lead worldwide sales and business development. As Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Business Development, Mason will leverage his 15 years of sales and operational leadership experience in the video platform market to accelerate Qumu’s customer acquisition, maximize existing customer revenue growth, and expand Qumu’s partner network.
“Chance comes to Qumu with a tremendous amount of experience building and leading high-growth sales functions in the video platform industry,” said Vern Hanzlik, President and CEO of Qumu. “His passion for how video can transform enterprises and deep knowledge of the marketplace will enable us to expand our reach across the Americas, EMEA and APAC.”
Mason’s experience encompasses the enterprise video and new media industries, including eight years at Multicast Media Technologies and the most recent four years as an Executive Vice President at Haivision. Mason has held multiple executive-level sales roles in rapidly growing organizations, and has led numerous business development teams spanning the Americas, EMEA and APAC.
“I’m excited to help the team drive adoption of the Qumu platform not only within Global 2000 organizations, but within any organization where flawless execution of video is a priority,” noted Mason. “Qumu’s product vision, technology platform and customer support are by far the best in the industry, and I look forward to contributing to the company’s growth in 2018 and beyond.”
Those interested in finding out more about Qumu’s partners and programs should visit the Qumu website at www.qumu.com .
About Qumu Corporation
Qumu (NASDAQ: QUMU) helps the world’s largest companies realize the value of putting video to work for their digital workforce. Organizations use Qumu software to create, manage and share video—live streaming and on demand—turning video into an always-on resource and connecting thousands of stakeholders across a single enterprise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005144/en/
Qumu Corporation
Eric Rudolf, +1 612-638-9085
Vice President of Marketing
eric.rudolf@qumu.com
Source: Qumu Corporation