EWING, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq: OLED), enabling energy-efficient displays and lighting with its UniversalPHOLED ® technology and materials, today announced that its results for the fourth quarter and full year, ended December 31, 2017, will be released on Thursday, February 22, 2018 after market close. At that time, a copy of the financial results release will be available on the Company’s website at www.oled.com .
In conjunction with this release, Universal Display will host a conference call on Thursday, February 22, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The live webcast of the conference call can be accessed under the events page of the Company's Investor Relations website at ir.oled.com . Those wishing to participate in the live call should dial 1-877-524-8416 (toll-free) or 1-412-902-1028, and reference conference ID 13676061. Please dial in 5-10 minutes prior to the scheduled conference call time. An online archive of the webcast will be available within two hours of the conclusion of the call.
About Universal Display Corporation
Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq: OLED) is a leader in developing and delivering state-of-the-art, organic light emitting diode (OLED) technologies, materials and services to the display and lighting industries. Founded in 1994, the Company currently owns or has exclusive, co-exclusive or sole license rights with respect to more than 4,500 issued and pending patents worldwide. Universal Display licenses its proprietary technologies, including its breakthrough high-efficiency UniversalPHOLED® phosphorescent OLED technology that can enable the development of low power and eco-friendly displays and solid-state lighting. The Company also develops and offers high-quality, state-of-the-art UniversalPHOLED materials that are recognized as key ingredients in the fabrication of OLEDs with peak performance. In addition, Universal Display delivers innovative and customized solutions to its clients and partners through technology transfer, collaborative technology development and on-site training.
Headquartered in Ewing, New Jersey, with international offices in China, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, and wholly-owned subsidiary Adesis, Inc. based in New Castle, Delaware, Universal Display works and partners with a network of world-class organizations, including Princeton University, the University of Southern California, the University of Michigan, and PPG Industries, Inc. The Company has also established relationships with companies such as AU Optronics Corporation, BOE Technology, DuPont Displays, Inc., EverDisplay Optronics (Shanghai) Limited, Innolux Corporation, Japan Display Inc., Kaneka Corporation, Konica Minolta Technology Center, Inc., LG Display Co., Ltd., Lumiotec, Inc., OLEDWorks LLC, OSRAM, Pioneer Corporation, Royole Corporation, Samsung Display Co., Ltd., Sharp Corporation, Sumitomo Chemical Company, Ltd., Tianma Micro-electronics and Tohoku Pioneer Corporation. To learn more about Universal Display Corporation, please visit http://www.oled.com .
Universal Display Corporation and the Universal Display Corporation logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Universal Display Corporation. All other company, brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks.
All statements in this document that are not historical, such as those relating to Universal Display Corporation’s technologies and potential applications of those technologies, the Company’s expected results, as well as the growth of the OLED market and the Company’s opportunities in that market, are forward-looking financial statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any in this document, as they reflect Universal Display Corporation’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Universal Display Corporation’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, in particular, the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Universal Display Corporation’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Universal Display Corporation disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained in this document.
Follow Universal Display Corporation
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
(OLED-C)
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005994/en/
Universal Display Corporation
Darice Liu, 609-671-0980 x570
investor@oled.com
media@oled.com
Source: Universal Display Corporation