HOUSTON, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Jones Walker LLP announced today that Joseph "Joe" Bain has joined the Business & Commercial Litigation Practice Group as a partner in the Houston office.
Mr. Bain focuses on bankruptcy, business restructuring, workouts, and creditors' rights litigation. He regularly advises clients on insolvency issues that are specific to the oil, gas, and energy industries, including recharacterization risks, executory contract issues, treatment of statutory liens, application of bankruptcy safe harbors applicable to energy companies, treatment of utilities, and treatment of plugging and abandonment liabilities. Mr. Bain also maintains a general commercial litigation practice.
Lara D. Pringle , head of the firm's Texas offices, said, "Joe is a welcome addition to our expanding team of attorneys in Houston. His extensive experience in bankruptcy law and knowledge of the energy industry are assets that will help us better serve our clients in the region and nationwide."
Mr. Bain is a graduate of Texas A&M University, where he received a Bachelor of Business Administration, magna cum laude, and earned his juris doctor degree, cum laude, from George Mason University School of Law. While in law school, he served as Articles Editor of the George Mason Law Review.
About Jones Walker
Jones Walker LLP ( www.joneswalker.com ) is among the 120 largest law firms in the United States serving local, regional, national, and international business interests with offices in Alabama, Arizona, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, New York, and Texas. The firm is committed to providing a comprehensive range of legal services to major multinational, public and private corporations, Fortune 500 companies, money center banks, worldwide insurers, and emerging companies doing business in the United States and abroad.
Contact: Betsy Fortin
504.582.8183
bfortin@joneswalker.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/joseph-bain-joins-jones-walker-300588322.html
SOURCE Jones Walker LLP