PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- LBC Credit Partners ("LBC"), a leading provider of financing solutions to middle market companies, announced the promotion of seven of its team members. Kevin Doogan has been promoted to Managing Director; Michael Hertz has been promoted to Director; Nevin Murkley has been promoted to Vice President; and Jonathan Adler, Rocco Christino, Brian Einfeldt and Manu Rao have been promoted to Senior Associates.
Kevin Doogan is responsible for accounting, finance and tax matters. Kevin has 21 years of experience in the asset management and alternative investments industries.
Michael Hertz is responsible for sourcing, structuring and negotiating new investments in the Northeast region. Michael has 11 years of experience in leveraged lending and financial services.
Nevin Murkley is responsible for fundraising, marketing and investor relationship management. Nevin has 7 years of experience in financial services.
Jonathan Adler is responsible for supporting the sourcing, structuring and negotiating of new investments. Jonathan has 6 years of leveraged lending and financial services experience.
Rocco Christino is responsible for supporting the research and underwriting of new and existing investments. Rocco has 15 years of leveraged lending and financial services experience.
Brian Einfeldt is responsible for managing a portfolio of loans, capital markets research and loan syndications. Brian has 6 years of leveraged lending and financial services experience.
Manu Rao is responsible for supporting the research and underwriting of new and existing investments. Manu has 6 years of leveraged lending and financial services experience.
About LBC Credit Partners
LBC Credit Partners is a leading provider of middle market financing solutions including senior term, unitranche, second lien, junior secured and mezzanine debt and equity co-investments supporting sponsored and non-sponsored transactions. With over $3 billion* of capital commitments, LBC has made investments in companies located throughout North America across a wide range of industries and is committed to a long-term approach to debt investing. Headquartered in Philadelphia, LBC has additional offices in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. To learn more, visit www.lbccredit.com .
*Information as of December, 2017
MEDIA CONTACT:
Linda McDonough
Phone: (610) 631-5702
lmcdonough@50wordsmarketing.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lbc-credit-partners-announces-promotions-300581429.html
SOURCE LBC Credit Partners