JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- After 40 years as a pediatrician, 21 with Nemours and 13 as president and CEO of the Nemours Foundation, also known as Nemours Children's Health System, Dr. David Bailey has announced his plans to retire in the coming year.
During his tenure, Nemours increased revenues from $533 million to $1.4 billion, built the first greenfield freestanding children's hospital the U.S. has seen in decades, increased care locations from 15 to more than 80 throughout six states, and created a robust digital health and telemedicine platform.
"We are deeply grateful to Dr. Bailey for his devotion to continuing the legacy of our benefactor, Alfred I. duPont," said Brian Anderson, Chairman of Nemours' Board of Directors. "Everything that he has done at Nemours is based on ensuring that we put the child first at all times, that we attract and retain talented physicians and Associates to provide the highest quality care and that the organization is appropriately positioned to successfully deliver on its mission for the future."
Dr. Bailey also led Nemours in adopting an organizational culture of Continuous Improvement to become an integrated children's health system leveraging the power and talents of the entire organization to establish Nemours as a trusted national resource for children and a leading voice for children's healthcare and child health advocacy. He will continue to lead Nemours, business as usual, throughout the national search process now getting underway and will remain as president and CEO until his successor is in place.
"Nemours is a unique institution with extraordinary people who never forget why they come to work every day, to restore and improve the health of children. Whether providing direct care, education, prevention services or research, every one of them, every day are not only the best in their fields, they are devoted and they will continue to deliver on the Nemours promise in the years to come," said Dr. Bailey. "I look forward to participating in the search for the next CEO as an opportunity to transition what has been my dream, to someone with equal passion for children's healthcare."
Dr. Bailey has been honored by Modern Healthcare as one of the 50 Most Influential Physician Executives three times in the past four years as well as one of the 100 Most Influential People in Healthcare in 2015. His vision and influence on the Nemours organization also has included establishing the Office of Human Subject Protection, which has received the highest accreditation since its inception, and building the Child Health Policy and Prevention Unit, which advocates for children's health issues at the local, state, and national level.
For information about Nemours Foundation, its physicians and locations, please visit www.Nemours.org .
About Nemours Children's Health System
Nemours is an internationally recognized children's health system that owns and operates the Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children in Wilmington, Del., and Nemours Children's Hospital in Orlando, Fla., along with outpatient facilities in six states, delivering pediatric primary, specialty and urgent care. Nemours also powers the world's most-visited website for information on the health of children and teens, KidsHealth.org and offers on-demand, online video patient visits through Nemours CareConnect.
Established as The Nemours Foundation through the legacy and philanthropy of Alfred I. duPont, Nemours provides pediatric clinical care, research, education, advocacy, and prevention programs to families in the communities it serves.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nemours-foundation-ceo-david-j-bailey-md-mba-announces-plans-for-retirement-300580000.html
SOURCE Nemours Children's Health System