20 COMMENTS LAS VEGAS—For some innovators, the next frontier is the room in your house most likely to have a lock on the door: the bathroom.
Showcasing their goods at this year’s CES tech show, these companies acknowledge a need for privacy in that inner sanctum—then proceed to show off cameras, microphones and other sensors they’d like you to install there.
At first blush, the bathroom is the most boring possible spot smart-home technology could be applied, except maybe a closet. But consider a mirror that turns on motion-activated lights when you get up in the middle of the night, or tells you the weather in the morning. Consider setting the shower on to the perfect temperature just by asking, before you climb in. There are even “intelligent” toilets in the works though how intelligent they’ll be remains to be seen.
Kohler’s voice-lighted mirror with Amazon Alexa Photo: KOHLER At an opening press event for CES Sunday, Kohler debuted a voice-enabled lighted mirror with dual-microphones and Amazon.com Inc.’s AMZN 0.47% virtual assistant Alexa built in. Set to launch in March, it will allow people to control the mirror’s lighting, start showers, adjust water temperature and spray functionality, even cue up music, with just their voice. Kohler is also planning to eventually incorporate the Alphabet Inc.’s GOOGL -0.13% Google Assistant.
“The idea is to take these everyday moments and make them simpler, more efficient,” said Shane Judd, a vice president of marketing.
Mr. Judd used the example being able to ask Alexa to fill a tub that’s set to a specific temperature and fill level—a potential benefit to parents who are juggling evening routines with their children.
A perhaps not-as-practical function? Flushing the toilet with your voice.
“What we’re doing right now is working with Amazon and Google to build these skills because they don’t exist today,” he said. “Part of what we’re trying to do is show what the bathroom of the future could look like.”
Moen, another major bathroom-fixture brand, showed off a voice-activated shower that also make use of virtual assistants. It’s backed by an app that remembers your favorite settings: A post-workout shower, for example, might be set a few degrees cooler than your regular one.
Moen has partnerships with Amazon, Google and Apple Inc., which can control appliances via its HomeKit software.
Moen’s shower with voice-activation, also compatible with Amazon Alexa Photo: Moen Much of the developments in bathroom tech are centered around voice-controlled platforms, as the smart-home market continues to be a major focus in the tech world, Amazon, Google and Apple in particular. The 2018 version of “If you build it, they will come” seems to be “If you put in a microphone, maybe they’ll ask Alexa to do it for them.”
Tracking water consumption is another feature that’s popular among smart shower systems. Elmer, a French company, pairs its new shower with an app to track the amount of water used. Not only can it promise an “environmentally-friendly flow,” but it can be set to turn off after a fixed time, if someone in the house likes to take extra long showers.
Some startups see the bathroom the way others now look at the automobile: ready for an open-platform operating system of its own. CareOS—a subsidiary of a French firm which also owns connected toothbrush maker Kolibree—designed an entire health and beauty hub .
The centerpiece is a “smart” mirror, what would happen if a mirror mated with a tablet. It features facial recognition and touchless gestures—you swipe up or down in the air to move through menu options, so as not to smudge the mirror itself. To illustrate some of the mirror’s artificial intelligence capabilities, CareOS used a Lancome lipstick. The mirror scanned the tube, recognized it, then played a beauty tutorial on lipstick application.
While the beauty features are fun, the shift toward persistent health monitoring is key. The mirror’s menus included sleep data from a fitness tracker; you could also pair a smart scale to the system for weight tracking.
The mirror even dabbles in dermatology: If you take pictures of a mole with the mirror’s built-in camera, it will notify you of changes in size and color.
While a camera in the bathroom sounds like something you’d want to cover with duct tape, CareOS chief technology officer Ali Mouizina says all of your data is stored locally. The system won’t even share it with any other smart home or media hubs in your house, unless you want it to.
After all, he said, the bathroom is “a private place, a very special place.”