SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Terreno Realty Corporation (NYSE:TRNO), an acquirer, owner and operator of industrial real estate in six major coastal U.S. markets, sold an industrial property located in Jessup, Maryland on December 29, 2017 for a sale price of approximately $11.5 million.
The property consists of one industrial distribution building containing approximately 135,000 square feet at 8441 Dorsey Run Road which is 44% leased to one tenant. The property was purchased by Terreno Realty Corporation March 25, 2011 for approximately $5.8 million. The estimated unleveraged internal rate of return generated by the investment was approximately 11.9%.
Terreno Realty Corporation acquires, owns and operates industrial real estate in six major coastal U.S. markets: Los Angeles, Northern New Jersey/New York City, San Francisco Bay Area, Seattle, Miami, and Washington, D.C.
Additional information about Terreno Realty Corporation is available on the company’s web site at www.terreno.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. We caution investors that forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may”, “might”, “plan”, “project”, “result”, “should”, “will”, and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties, and factors that are beyond our control, including risks related to our ability to meet our estimated forecasts related to stabilized cap rates and those risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and our other public filings. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005113/en/
Terreno Realty Corporation
W. Blake Baird, 415-655-4580
Michael A. Coke, 415-655-4580
Source: Terreno Realty Corporation