MALVERN, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- PQ Group Holdings Inc. (NYSE:PQG) (“PQ” or the “Company”), an integrated global provider of catalysts, specialty materials and chemicals, and services, announced today it has appointed Nahla A. Azmy as Vice President, Investor Relations and Financial Communications. Ms. Azmy brings with her nearly 20 years of experience as a senior investor relations officer and equity analyst.
“We are pleased to welcome Nahla to our leadership team as the key interface between PQ and the financial community,” said Mike Crews, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. “Her broad and extensive industry experience in leading investor relations programs for Fortune 500 companies and her strong relationships with the financial community will prove invaluable as we strive to effectively communicate our strategies and initiatives for creating value for our investors following our recent launch as a public company.”
Most recently, Ms. Azmy was Head of Investor Relations for Versum Materials, which was spun out of Air Products in October 2016. At Versum she developed and executed an investor relations program for the company. Her previous roles included leading investor relations programs for Alcoa, Rockwood Holdings, and NRG Energy. Before joining NRG, Ms. Azmy was an equity analyst for eight years with a top-ranked Utilities and Power Research team. She has a Master of Business Administration degree from New York University Stern School of Business and a Bachelor of Arts degree from Colgate University.
About PQ Group Holdings Inc.
PQ Group Holdings Inc. is an integrated global provider of catalysts, specialty materials and chemicals, and services. Our environmental catalysts and services business is a leading global innovator and producer of catalysts for the refinery, emissions control, and petrochemical industries and is also a leading provider of catalyst recycling services to the North American refining industry. Our performance materials and chemicals business is a silicates and specialty materials producer with leading supply positions for the majority of our products sold in North America, Europe, South America, Australia and Asia serving diverse and growing end uses such as personal and industrial cleaning products, fuel efficient tires, surface coatings, and food and beverage products.
Note on Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005802/en/
Investors:
ICR
Michael Callahan, 203-682-8311
Michael.Callahan@icrinc.com
Source: PQ Group Holdings Inc.