SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pulse Secure , the leader in secure access solutions for people, devices, things and services, today announced achievements in sales growth; product innovation and expansion; and channel advancements for 2017. The company also recently added Justin Barney as its Chief Revenue Officer.
“Digital business transformation is redefining requirements for ubiquitous access security. This is especially challenging in today’s hybrid IT environments where availability and protection need to be fluid, flexible and scalable,” said Sudhakar Ramakrishna, CEO, Pulse Secure. “We are thrilled to see our investments in product innovation, Secure Access portfolio expansion, and customer success resources being realized through record business growth.”
“2017 was a year of major investment for Pulse Secure, with the launch of a new Secure Access suite, acquisition of Brocade’s vADC product line, and significant talent additions across the company. Our achievements are a harbinger of an exciting trajectory for 2018 and we are committed to continuing to define and lead the rapidly growing Secure Access market,” added Ramakrishna.
Pulse Secure is in a unique position to bring together virtual private network (VPN), network access control (NAC) and virtual application delivery controller (vADC) solutions across network, data center, cloud and mobile environments, delivering productivity without compromising security. Key milestones bolstering growth for 2017 include:
NAC, IOT and device profiling solutions bookings grew 70 percent YoY Newly launched Secure Access Suite drove a third of new business in Q4 of 2017 Added 133 large enterprise customers spanning financial services, healthcare, high tech, manufacturing, retail and education vADC acquired in Q3 2017, quickly returned to growth within two quarters with a focus on Cloud, Security and targeted use cases Continued channel sales growth representing nearly half of 2017 total bookings Solid industry Net Promoter Score (NPS) rating of 47 and customer renewal rate over 90%
Management Team Rounded out with Sales Leadership
Pulse Secure also announced today that Justin Barney has joined the company as its Chief Revenue Officer. Barney is the former president and CEO of ScaleArc, a database load balancing software company, and brings a proven history of executive and sales leadership experience as the former vice president of sales at Juniper Networks and Ankeena Networks. In addition, Matt Weaver has joined Pulse Secure as Vice President of Sales, bringing 11 years of sales and operations experience at Symantec.
"I am thrilled to join an innovative, proven security leader that is focused on delighting our more than 20,000 customers. Having spent over a decade leading sales teams in Pulse Secure's key market, it's truly a perfect fit. Not only has Pulse Secure delivered rock-solid technology, but they possess a core belief system of driving and supporting the success of customers and partners to achieve their mission," said Justin Barney, CRO, Pulse Secure. “I look forward to working with all the teams and becoming immersed in the exciting culture that is Pulse Secure.”
"I am excited to have Justin join Pulse Secure as a key member of our management team as we take our business to greater heights. Justin brings a wealth of industry experience successfully leading global sales teams - more importantly he brings the competence, commitment, and fantastic attitude that continues to build the foundation of Pulse Secure,” commented Sudhakar Ramakrishna, CEO, Pulse Secure.
About Pulse Secure
Pulse Secure, LLC is a leading provider of secure access solutions to both enterprises and service providers. Enterprises from every vertical and of all sizes utilize the company’s virtual private network (VPN), network access control (NAC), virtual application delivery controller (vADC) and mobile security products to enable end-user mobility securely and seamlessly in their organizations. Pulse Secure was formed in 2014 from Juniper Networks’ Junos Pulse business. Pulse Secure’s mission is to deliver secure access solutions for people, devices, things, and services. www.pulsesecure.net .
Follow us at @PulseSecure on Twitter or visit us on LinkedIn and Facebook.
Media Contact:
Leslie Kesselring
KessComm
P: 503-358-1012
E: leslie@kesscomm.com
Source:Pulse Secure, LLC