SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Lauren Groff joined G2 Insurance Services as Assistant Vice President, Risk Management – Nonprofit Division. Lauren will serve G2’s nonprofit clients, including arts and cultural organizations, social services and educational institutions.
“We are so pleased to welcome Lauren to our team,” said Mark Ruggles, CEO. “Her experience with nonprofit clients and her personal involvement with the performing arts community is a great fit for our team. Offering our clients an additional risk management resource will add tremendous value to their experience with G2.”
Prior to joining G2 Insurance Services, Lauren was a Client Service Manager in Arthur J. Gallagher and Company’s Nonprofit and Specialty Risk Practice where she handled all aspects of client management and sales. She has also served as President of the Board of Directors of the San Francisco Opera’s Bravo! Club. Lauren earned her undergraduate degree at California Polytechnic State University and her masters degree at San Francisco Conservatory of Music.
“I am thrilled to be working with the G2 team,” said Lauren. “Our commitment to arts and cultural institutions as well as to the nonprofits at large is meaningful to me, both personally and professionally. I am proud to be part of a team that follows through on their promises to better our community.”
Lauren is located in G2 Insurance Services’ San Francisco office. She can be reached at 415-426-6656 and lgroff@G2insurance.com .
About G2 Insurance Services
Founded in 2012 and located in San Francisco, G2 Insurance Services is an independent, full-service property, casualty and employee benefits insurance brokerage firm focused on the risk management needs of for-profit companies, non-profit organizations and high-net-worth individuals. More information can be found at G2insurance.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006106/en/
G2 Insurance Services
Todd McCormack, 415-426-6609
Sales & Marketing Manager
tmccormack@G2insurance.com
Source: G2 Insurance Services