FARMINGDALE, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- A&E Medical (Alto Development Corporation) a leading global surgical implant company, today announced that Eric Sklar has been named Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. He will succeed Chief Executive Officer, Michael Janish, who will resume his role as Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Sklar, previously served as president of A&E Medical since 2015, where he was instrumental in the recruitment and execution of acquiring Medical Concepts of Europe (MCE) and the purchase of the Cardiothoracic business unit from RTI Surgical (RTIX). Eric has a track record of revitalizing and profitably growing global businesses within the health care industry. Prior to A&E Medical, Mr. Sklar held senior leadership roles where he improved the performance of business units at companies including Terumo Cardiovascular and Pall Corporation.
“Eric is a dynamic leader and has proven to be a great steward of the A&E organization over the past two years. A&E has seen strong growth and organizational development under Eric’s oversight and we’re excited about what the future holds with Eric as Chief Executive Officer,” said A&E Chairman Michael Janish. “Eric has A&E on a great trajectory and the Board of Directors and I look forward to continuing to work with him in his new role.”
“I am honored to be appointed chief executive officer of A&E Medical. I look forward to continuing to work with our executive team and employees to provide world-class cardiac surgery products around the globe,” said Mr. Sklar.
Mr. Sklar earned an M.B.A. from Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, a Masters of Science from Eastern Michigan University and a Bachelors of Science from Michigan State University.
About A&E Medical
A&E Medical is a leader in cardiothoracic surgery, focused on sternal closure and dedicated to providing surgeons with a state-of-the-art portfolio which includes a comprehensive sternal closure pipeline, innovative pacing wires and an array of rotating surgical punches. A&E is headquartered in Farmingdale, NJ and dedicated to serving surgeons, hospitals and patients. For more information please visit www.aemedical.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005639/en/
A&E Medical
Peter Didyk
Vice President of Global Sales & Marketing
732.938.2266
p.didyk@aemedical.com
Source: A&E Medical