NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on RYAM, UNVR, VHI, and VSM which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . Pre-market, WallStEquities.com explores the Diversified Chemicals space, which consists of companies that are significantly engaged in at least two the following industries: Chemicals – Commodity; Chemicals – Agricultural; and Chemicals – Specialty. Selected for review are these four major industry players: Rayonier Advanced Materials Inc. (NYSE: RYAM), Univar Inc. (NYSE: UNVR), Valhi Inc. (NYSE: VHI), and Versum Materials Inc. (NYSE: VSM). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Rayonier Advanced Materials
Jacksonville, Florida headquartered Rayonier Advanced Materials Inc.'s stock finished Tuesday's session 1.57% lower at $19.48. A total volume of 721,341 shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 691,000 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 38.75% over the previous three months and 19.00% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 3.11% and 25.96%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of the Company, which manufactures and sells cellulose specialty products in the US, China, Japan, Canada, Europe, Latin America, other Asian countries, and internationally, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 49.56.
On January 16 th , 2018, Rayonier Advanced Materials announced that its Board of Directors has declared a Q1 cash dividend of $2.00 per share of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company. The dividend is payable on February 15 th , 2018, to stockholders of record on February 01 st , 2018. Get the full research report on RYAM for free by clicking below at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=RYAM
Univar
Shares in Downers Grove, Illinois headquartered Univar Inc. ended flat at $30.98. The stock recorded a trading volume of 502,150 shares. The Company's shares have gained 5.52% in the previous three months and 5.20% over the past year. The stock is trading 2.52% above its 50-day moving average and 4.34% above its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Univar, which distributes commodity and specialty chemical products, and related services worldwide, have an RSI of 52.88.
On January 04 th , 2018, Univar announced that its wholly owned subsidiaries, Univar AB in Sweden and Univar AS in Norway, have successfully completed the acquisition of Kemetyl Industrial Chemicals, a division of the Kemetyl Group. The latter generates approximately $30 million in annual sales. Gain free access to the research report on UNVR at:
www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=UNVR
Valhi
Dallas, Texas-based Valhi Inc.'s stock ended yesterday's session 0.16% lower at $6.15 with a total trading volume of 128,266 shares. The Company's shares have surged 83.04% over the previous three months and 89.81% over the past year. The stock is trading 4.18% and 63.07% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Valhi, which engages in the chemicals, component products, waste management, and real estate businesses worldwide, have an RSI of 52.62. Signing up today on Wall St. Equities will give you access to the latest report on VHI at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=VHI
Versum Materials
On Tuesday, shares in Tempe, Arizona headquartered Versum Materials Inc. recorded a trading volume of 202,972 shares. The stock finished 0.48% higher at $40.02. The Company's shares have advanced 3.71% in the last month, 0.83% in the previous three months, and 45.53% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 3.94% and 12.17%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Versum Materials, which develops, manufactures, transports, and handles specialty materials to the semiconductor and display industries in the US, Taiwan, South Korea, China, Europe, and rest of Asia, have an RSI of 59.69.
On January 16 th , 2018, Versum Materials announced that it will issue a press release reporting its results for Q1 ended December 31 st , 2017, prior to the market opening on February 06 th , 2018. The Company will host a conference call and webcast at 11:00 a.m. ET that same day to discuss these results. Register now for today's free coverage on VSM at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=VSM
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/chemicals-stocks-research-reports-released-on-rayonier-advanced-materials-univar-valhi-and-versum-materials-300587350.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities