AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 19, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Xplore Technologies (Nasdaq:XPLR) today announced it expects revenue for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, to be approximately $85 million, at the high end of its previously announced revenue outlook of $75 to $85 million. This confidence is the result of preliminary fiscal third quarter revenue of $23.8 million, strong backlog entering the fiscal fourth quarter and continuing sales wins. The company also expects to report fiscal third quarter EBITDA and earnings per share in line with analyst consensus estimates exclusive of one-time severance expenses incurred during the quarter. Xplore intends to report full results of the quarter in February 2018.
Fiscal third quarter sales included deliveries to leading global customers across a diverse range of targeted vertical markets, including telecommunications, automotive manufacturing, military, consumer service and pharmaceutical customers. Xplore also secured notable orders from a global fast food company, the Veteran’s Administration and a leading national car rental company.
“We continue to execute well, including solid sales in the December quarter and a positive outlook for our fiscal fourth quarter,” said acting CEO Tom Wilkinson. “We are confident that this execution puts Xplore on track to achieve the upper end of our previous revenue target for the full fiscal year. As we enter 2018, demand for Xplore rugged tablets is strong, backlog remains high and the entire team at Xplore is motivated by our transformation into a rugged mobility company.”
About Xplore Technologies
Xplore is The Rugged Tablet Authority™, exclusively manufacturing powerful, long-lasting, and customer-defined rugged tablet PCs since 1996. Today, Xplore offers the broadest portfolio of genuinely rugged tablets – and the most complete lineup of rugged tablet accessories – on Earth. Its mobility solutions are purpose-built for the energy, utilities, telecommunications, military and defense, manufacturing, distribution, public safety, healthcare, government, and field service sectors. The company’s award-winning military-grade computers are also among the most powerful and longest lasting in their class, built to withstand nearly any hazardous condition or environmental extreme for years without fail. Visit www.xploretech.com for more information on how Xplore and its global channel partners engineer complete mobility solutions to meet specialized workflow demands. Follow us on Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn , and YouTube .
Forward Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made. When used in this document, the words “may”, “would”, “could”, “will”, “intend”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect Xplore’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to such risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made including those factors detailed from time to time in filings made by Xplore with securities regulatory authorities. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward looking statements prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as intended, planned, anticipated or expected. Xplore does not intend and does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Contact Information:
Matt Kreps, Darrow Associates Investor Relations
(214) 597-8200
mkreps@darrowir.com
Tom Wilkinson
Acting Chief Executive Officer
(512) 637-1162
Source:Xplore Technologies Corp