ORLANDO, Fla., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Central Florida-based Personal Mini Storage has further expanded its presence in Gainesville, FL with the acquisition of Devon Self Storage located at 8825 NW 13th Street. Located a few miles north of the University of Florida, the purchase of this asset increases the company's presence in the Gainesville market to 6 properties and is the company's 43rd property in its portfolio.
The property comprises approximately 90,000 rentable square feet in 897 units, offering a mix of both air conditioned and non-air conditioned units, as well as outdoor parking space for boats and RVs. The facility will be rebranded under the Personal Mini Storage name and will also offer U-Haul truck rentals on-site for customer convenience.
"We're incredibly excited to add our sixth store in Gainesville, Florida, and coincidentally our sixth store with National Storage Affiliates, our joint venture partner. We're confident that our "new" customers will notice the PERSONAL difference offered by our very capable staff and will soon become raving fans and customer evangelists," said Marc Smith, President of Personal Mini Storage.
Personal Mini Storage, based out of Orlando, FL, focuses on providing an excellent customer experience for its customers and has been the storage solution for local residents and businesses in Central Florida since its inception in 1982.
About Personal Mini Storage
Personal Mini Storage is operated by Laurie & Marc Smith and is Central Florida's largest family owned storage operator. In March 2017, Personal Mini Storage entered agreements to become National Storage Affiliates Trust eighth Participating Regional Operator.
To find out more about Personal Mini Storage or to find the storage location nearest to you, visit www.personalministorage.com
Media Contact:
Deanna Mooney
188844@email4pr.com
4072970683
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/personal-mini-storage-acquires-897-unit-self-storage-facility-in-gainesville-fl-300583408.html
SOURCE Personal Mini Storage