COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Jan. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Yesterday Health Advance Inc. (OTC PINK:HADV) filed a Form 8-K Report , adopting a new Board Resolution to appoint new executive managers and officers of the Company to take effect immediately.
The Company has appointed Chairman and Executive Director, Greg Shusterman as the new Acting President of Health Advance Inc. Shusterman was appointed as Director and Vice Chairman at Health Advance in 2017 and was the Acting Chairman and Executive Director through January 2018. Before joining Health Advance he served as a consultant to national robotic surgical clinics MiVIP Surgery Centers and oBand Inc. Additionally, Shusterman was co-founder and Executive Vice President at Gubagoo Inc., a leading customer communications solution platform serving thousands of clients including Ford, Fiat, Chrysler, BMW, Volkswagen, Kia and Land Rover. His entrepreneurial experience has helped bring start-up companies through growth and expansion phases, to maturity and exit.
Furthermore, the Company has appointed Board Director, Christian Diesveld as Vice President of Investor Relations who will assist the Company with fund-raising goals. Diesveld previously worked various senior leadership positions for a number of companies, including, but not limited to, Hantian Labs Limited, a pending acquisition of the Company, where Mr. Diesveld was recently named UK CEO of the Year – Small Enterprise in the Health and Wellness sector. Additionally, Diesveld brings over twenty years experience in capital markets, specializing in private equity and venture capital with FCA licensed firms. Diesveld attended York University where he majored in International Business and worked at Nesbitt Burns as an Investment Advisor.
Micro Medtech Ltd. remains active with the Company under a license agreement, working on developing two patented medical food formulations derived from NSAID alternatives and botanical extract blends that contain kava, cannabidiol ("CBD”), and mitragyna speciosa (better known as kratom)- Med-patents, known as Polyoxyfen and Cebidiofen. An exhibit from the recent most quarterly report for the Company filed in December displayed that there are plans for clinical trials and a medical research program titled KLEAN beginning early this year at a government accredited medical college in Pohnpei, Micronesia.
For more information about Health Advance visit www.hadvinc.com and www.staycleanmed.com .
Media Relations Contact: media@hadvinc.com Phone: 719-466-6699
Source:Health Advance