Tanner Pearson scored with 27 seconds left in overtime, and backup goalie Darcy Kuemper made 30 saves to give the Los Angeles Kings a 2-1 victory over the Calgary Flames on Wednesday night in Calgary, Alberta.
Drew Doughty faked a slap shot during the three-on-three play before he passed across to Pearson, who tallied the winner with a quick shot at the Scotiabank Saddledome.
It was the third consecutive game in which the Flames held a 1-0 lead and lost in extra time. However, Calgary is riding a 10-game point streak (7-0-3).
Calgary’s Sean Monahan opened the scoring with 5:57 left in the first period by finishing a pretty passing play. After Micheal Ferland dropped the puck between his legs in the slot, Monahan and Johnny Gaudreau executed a textbook give-and-go before Monahan potted his 22nd goal of the season.
The Kings surrendered the first goal for the eighth consecutive game.
The Flames dominated the second period, in big part thanks to having four power-play opportunities, but they couldn’t build on their lead. Both Gaudreau and Monahan rang pucks off the iron, which ended up being costly missed opportunities.
Kings defenseman Jake Muzzin netted a power-play goal at 4:09 of the third period -- the first in 24 man-advantage chances against the Flames -- to tie the score. Muzzin set up for the one-timer in the high slot and unloaded a slap shot that beat Flames goalie Mike Smith for his fifth of the season.
Muzzin has collected two goals and seven points in his past seven outings. Doughty had a two-point game.
The Kings did some juggling due to injuries. Goalie Jonathan Quick served as the backup but has elected to forgo the All-Star weekend due to a nagging injury. He also will be unable to dress next Tuesday. Defenseman Derek Forbort (upper body) and center Nick Shore (lower body) missed the game due to injuries.
Smith stopped 25 shots for the Flames, who haven’t allowed more than three goals in 21 games, surrendering only 39 goals in that stretch.
--Field Level Media
 