Denver, CO, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Blue Line Protection Group, Inc. (OTCPink: BLPG ) , the leading cash transportation, processing and compliance investigations provider for financial institutions servicing the legal cannabis industry, is pleased to announce the election of Christopher E. Galvin as chairman of its board of directors.
Mr. Galvin founded and served as CEO and chairman of several public and private companies. He began his career in investment banking – focusing on mergers and acquisitions and structured finance – and has deep experience in corporate finance, hedge fund and private equity strategies.
Mr. Galvin is currently the founder and chief executive officer of Hypur Inc., an Arizona-based company providing banking and payment technology designed specifically to enable financial institutions to safely and profitably serve cash-intensive and high-risk businesses. Mr. Galvin is also co-founder and president of Hypur Ventures, a venture capital fund dedicated to investing in businesses that operate in the cannabis industry.
“We’re pleased to have Mr. Galvin become Blue Line’s new Chairman of the board and help drive the development and expansion of our financial services for high-risk industries,” said Blue Line CEO Dan Allen. “Mr. Galvin’s extensive experience in the fintech and technology solutions industries will help enhance Blue Line expand its services and tap into new revenue channels nationwide.”
Blue Line recently announced its plans to partner with Hypur to expand services to Arizona, Oregon, Washington, California and Nevada and has reiterated its commitment to ensuring the legal cannabis industry operates in a safe, secure and compliant manner, adhering to the spirit of the priorities listed in previously established federal regulatory guidance, as well as all other pertinent state and local laws regulating the industry.
With over 600 compliance assessments completed and over $400 million in currency transported and processed on behalf of financial institutions providing transparent banking services to the legal cannabis industry, Blue Line has become the leading cash logistics and compliance assurance provider for the legal cannabis industry and is crucial to the health and longevity of a compliant and responsible industry.
About Blue Line Protection Group, Inc.
Blue Line Protection Group provides consulting, armed security, compliance and investigations, transportation and secure vaulting services to banks, businesses and government entities who need to protect their assets, licenses and clients. Blue Line serves banks and credit unions by providing currency processing and transportation solutions, and its risk mitigation services help financial institutions serving cash-intensive industries comply with federal “know your customer” mandates. For more information, visit www.BlueLineProtectionGroup.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
This release includes forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and reflects management's current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from current expectations. Some of these factors include: general global economic conditions; general industry and market conditions, sector changes and growth rates; uncertainty as to whether our strategies and business plans will yield the expected benefits; increasing competition; availability and cost of capital; the ability to identify and develop and achieve commercial success; the level of expenditures necessary to maintain and improve the quality of services; changes in the economy; changes in laws and regulations, including codes and standards, intellectual property rights, and tax matters; or other matters not anticipated; our ability to secure and maintain strategic relationships and distribution agreements. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/08f72306-194c-485e-b3db-0ce5c9ec71a0
Attachments:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/08ec2c10-ca47-42a9-893e-181fbcf8ed1d
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/837e2cb4-6171-4e29-adeb-90cb2f822c24
Michael Jerome Blue Line Protection Group Inc. 8008445576 michael@bluelineprotectiongroup.com
Source:Blue Line Protection Group Inc.