Expands into Adjacent Flexible Couplings Category;
Adds Approximately $100 Million of Revenue
MILWAUKEE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Rexnord Corporation (NYSE: RXN) announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Centa Power Transmission (Centa Antriebe Kirschey GmbH), a leading manufacturer of premium flexible couplings and drive shafts for industrial, marine, rail and power generation applications. Subject to customary closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close by the end of February.
“Centa is a business that we have long thought would be an outstanding fit with Rexnord and we are very excited to come to an agreement to make that a reality,” said Todd Adams, President and Chief Executive Officer of Rexnord. “We expect to drive considerable revenue and cost synergies as the business is integrated into Rexnord and believe the complementary product portfolio opens up multiple growth opportunities for us.”
“With the mission-critical nature of the applications in which most of Centa’s products are used, we believe there is a substantial opportunity to bring our DiRXN™ digital productivity platform and connected products capabilities to create even more value for Centa’s long-standing and impressive customer relationships,” said Kevin Zaba, Group Executive and President Rexnord Process & Motion Control platform.
About Rexnord
Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rexnord is comprised of two strategic platforms, Process & Motion Control and Water Management, with approximately 8,000 employees worldwide. The Process & Motion Control platform designs, manufactures, markets and services specified, highly engineered mechanical components used within complex systems. The Water Management platform designs, procures, manufactures and markets products that provide and enhance water quality, safety, flow control and conservation. Additional information about Rexnord can be found at www.rexnordcorp.com .
About Centa Power Transmission (Centa Antriebe Kirschey GmbH)
Headquartered in Haan, Germany, Centa has been engaging in solving complex drive train and torsional vibration challenges since 1970. Centa is a producer of highly-engineered flexible couplings and shaft lines for industrial and marine applications, for power generation and rail applications. Centa’s couplings are primarily used for diesel-driven applications where the couplings dampen the torsional vibrations of the engine. Further information on Centa is available at www.centa.info .
Forward-Looking Statements
Information in this release may involve outlook, expectations, beliefs, plans, intentions, strategies or other statements regarding the future, which are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based upon information available to Rexnord Corporation as of the date of the release, and Rexnord Corporation assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. The statements in this release are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Numerous factors could cause or contribute to such differences. Please refer to “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 as well as the Company’s annual, quarterly and current reports filed on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K from time to time with the SEC for a further discussion of the factors and risks associated with the business.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005582/en/
Rexnord Corporation
Investor Contact:
Rob McCarthy, 414-223-1615
Vice President, Investor Relations
or
Media Contact:
Angela Hersil, 855-480-5050
Director, Corporate Communications
Corporate.Communications@Rexnord.com
Source: Rexnord Corporation