WAIKIKI, Hawaii, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Halekulani , Oahu's acclaimed luxury hotel, is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr. Jason Waterlow as the property's new Director of Food and Beverage, effective immediately. In his role, Mr. Waterlow is responsible for overseeing all food and beverage operations at Halekulani's dining venues including La Mer, Orchids, L'Aperitif, Lewers Lounge, and House Without A Key. Waterlow employs his wealth of expertise and innate charm to lead Halekulani's award-winning in-house restaurants and bars with impeccable service and detail.
Waterlow brings many years of experience in the restaurant and hospitality industry to Halekulani. Prior to Halekulani, Waterlow most recently held the Managing Director position at the Inn at Little Washington, a AAA Five-Diamond, Forbes Five-Star, Michelin two-star property that focuses on delivering masterful culinary experiences. Waterlow has also held leadership roles at the Ojai Valley Inn and Spa, L'Auberge de Sedona, Chateux du Sureau, and the Four Seasons Maui where he contributed immensely to their success and reputation.
"Jason Waterlow is a seasoned food and beverage professional with extensive knowledge of global luxury and fine dining," said Ulrich Krauer, General Manager at Halekulani. "We are thrilled to welcome Jason's energy, creativity, and vision at work in each of our beloved in-house restaurants and bars at Halekulani."
About Halekulani
Since its inception in 1984 as one of the world's finest and most acclaimed independent luxury hotels, Halekulani has received more than 500 accolades, awards and honoraria. The property is one of The World's Best Hotels on Condé Nast Traveler's 2016 Gold List and was voted Best Hotel on Oahu in Travel + Leisure's 500 World's Best Hotels for 2016. Halekulani is home to SpaHalekulani, House Without A Key, Lewers Lounge, Orchids and La Mer, Hawaii's longest, consecutively ranked AAA Five Diamond and Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star Restaurant. For twenty years, Halekulani has maintained a strong commitment to arts and culture through exclusive alliances with Oahu's most iconic cultural venues. Halekulani is operated by the Hotels and Resorts of Halekulani, a brand management division of the Honolulu-based Halekulani Corporation, which also oversees the Waikiki Parc. Halekulani is a member of The Leading Hotels of the World and is aligned with Tokyo's legendary Imperial Hotel.
Stay connected with Halekulani via www.halekulani.com , on Twitter and Instagram at @HalekulaniHotel or on Facebook at Halekulani Hotel . To share an unforgettable #HalekulaniMoment, visit http://www.halekulanimoment.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/halekulani-appoints-new-director-of-food-and-beverage-300578283.html
SOURCE Halekulani