WASHINGTON, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC, an employee-owned, full-service independent partnership associated with Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (member FINRA/SIPC), announced today that Sarah Marks, CFP ® , Director, Andrew Egber , Senior Vice President, and Miguel Lopez, Vice President, have joined Steward Partners from Wells Fargo, where they managed approximately $230 million in client assets. Marks and her team join Steward's Washington office, while Egber and Lopez, who operate as The Egber-Lopez Investment Group , join the firm's Bethesda, Md., branch. The three advisors are the first new additions of the year for Steward Partners, whose rapid expansion has established it as one of the fastest-growing full-service independent partnerships in the country.
"We are thrilled to welcome our newest partners from Wells Fargo this past week," said Hy Saporta, Steward Partners' president. "We continue to see interest across our current branches in the Northeast and Florida, and we are now experiencing a surge of unsolicited interest from regions beyond our current footprint. To keep up with demand, and not overwhelm our existing process, we've added more talent in operations, regional management and, most recently, our board of directors. Seeing this level of enthusiasm is humbling."
For Marks, the advantages of an independent model were clear, but deciding on the right firm required careful consideration. "The more that we learned about the resources, management and firm culture at Steward Partners and Raymond James, the more convinced we became that this was the right choice for our team. By combining the traditional capabilities of a wealth management firm and the investment advisory capabilities of an RIA, Steward enables us to focus on our clients and their families. At the end of the day, ensuring that our clients' interests come first is paramount," said Marks.
Similarly, Egber and Lopez were intrigued by the recent growth of Steward Partners in Bethesda. "Miguel and I had considered going independent for some time," said Egber, "but we did not want to take time away from our clients to oversee various office and managerial duties. The combination of Steward Partners and Raymond James offered us everything we needed to provide our clients with concierge-level service while allowing us the freedom to entertain business growth ideas suitable for our practice."
"Our chief concern in deciding to move was having the freedom and flexibility to manage our clients' wealth," said Lopez. "Being able to utilize either a wealth management or advisory approach means that we can adapt to the specific needs and goals of our individual clients. We're excited to join the Steward family in the Bethesda office, and we're looking forward to reuniting with our former Legg Mason colleagues Connie Miner, Tom O'Bryon, Keith Barberis and Amy Sachs, all of whom are now at Steward Partners."
STEWARD'S EXPANSION CONTINUES IN NEW YEAR
Steward Partners already has commitments well into the first four months of 2018, and the firm anticipates a repeat performance of its 2017 pace, which saw new advisors being added nearly every month. More partners naturally means more locations, and Steward plans to open three to four new offices over the course of the upcoming year. When the firm was founded in 2013, it set a seven-year goal of $100 million in recruited revenue. Senior leadership within the partnership now believes that goal could be achieved within the year.
"In addition to growing our wealth management team, we have been expanding our reach into international advisory, corporate and executive consulting, succession planning and investment advisory (RIA) capabilities," said Jim Gold, Steward's Chief Executive Officer. "We doubled the size of our firm in 2016, and we nearly doubled it again in 2017, all while remaining focused on hiring great people who also run great businesses. With our latest annual goals now in place, we intend to do the same in 2018."
With Jeff Gonyo as the divisional president in Washington and Maryland, Jim Connors as divisional president in New England and the recent addition of Chris Barton as divisional president in Texas, Steward Partners has key leadership positioned to build on its 2017 success. "We're extremely busy doing what's necessary to create a place for our partners," added Gold, "but we're also having a lot of fun along the way."
Since November 2013, Steward Partners has added over 80 advisors with over $61 million in trailing 12-month production and over $8.3 billion in assets under management. In 2017 Steward Partners announced the openings of the firm's ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth locations, in Clearwater, Fla., Boston, Baltimore and Paramus, N.J., respectively.
About Steward Partners Global Advisory
With offices in Albany, N.Y., Andover and Boston, Mass., Baltimore and Bethesda, Md., Clearwater, Fla., Keene, Manchester and Portsmouth, N.H., Paramus, N.J., New York City and Washington, D.C., Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC, is an employee-owned, full-service independent partnership catering to family, institutional and multigenerational wealth.
For more information, visit us at www.stewardpartners.com .
About Raymond James Financial Services, Inc.
Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., is a financial services firm supporting more than 4,300 independent financial advisors nationwide. Since 1974, Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., member FINRA/SIPC, has provided a wide range of investment and wealth planning related services through its affiliate, Raymond James & Associates, Inc., member New York Stock Exchange/SIPC. Both broker/dealers are wholly owned subsidiaries of Raymond James Financial, Inc. (NYSE-RJF), a leading diversified financial services company with approximately 7,300 financial advisors in 3,000 locations throughout the United States, Canada and overseas. Total client assets are $718 billion.
Steward Partners Holdings, Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC and The Egber-Lopez Investment Group, maintain a separate professional business relationship with, and our registered professionals offer securities through, Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., member FINRA/SIPC. Investment advisory services offered through Steward Partners Investment Advisory, LLC, 1776 I Street NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20006. Toll Free: (844) 801-8268.
Press Contact:
Gregory Banasz
202-930-6008
Greg.banasz@stewardpartners.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/steward-partners-and-raymond-james-add-wells-fargo-advisors-with-over-230-million-to-washington-and-bethesda-offices-300586886.html
SOURCE Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC