CINCINNATI, Ohio, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Claritas, a leading provider of consumer segmentation analysis and tools for improving marketing performance, acquired Miami-based Geoscape International Inc., experts in multicultural business intelligence.
Claritas logo
Founded in 1995 by César M. Melgoza, Geoscape is known for its unique data, technology, depth of knowledge and understanding of multicultural consumers. Geoscape serves many of the world’s leading brands and agencies with a full-range of marketing consulting services, research, data-rich online systems and analytics containing unique consumer insights.
“Approximately 40 percent of the U.S. population is non-white/Anglo. Hispanic, Asian and African American audiences represent 95 percent of the growth in population and consumer spending,” said Claritas CEO Mike Nazzaro. “Marketers must find ways to connect with these high-growth consumers in relevant ways. The acquisition of Geoscape will deepen Claritas’ consumer insights to help clients gain wider access to multicultural consumer groups.”
Claritas provides marketers with a comprehensive view into the buying behaviors and media choices of consumers and businesses through proprietary segmentation analysis, powered by unique data sources and direct consumer research. Claritas’ signature marketing solution, PRIZM ® Premier segmentation, is used by the nation’s largest brands to find their best customers, simply and quickly, at scale. Its unique methodology enables marketers to view a household’s lifestyle and media behaviors, including new measures of wealth and technology adoption.
Geoscape offers a suite of online software and insights that enable marketers to access high-growth consumer groups such as Hispanics, Asians, African-Americans, Millennials, GenZ, and LGBT. Paired with Claritas’ PRIZM ® , Nazzaro said, “Claritas will offer the industry’s most comprehensive view of today’s consumers to help marketers maximize ROI.”
Claritas and Geoscape work with some of the nation’s largest consumer brands, including Wendy’s, Home Depot, McDonald’s, Kroger, Farmers Insurance, Goya, Zions Bank, Bank of the West, Univision, MoneyGram, Nestle, Verizon, Time Warner, AT&T, Valpak, MediaCom and MetroPCS.
“When I founded Geoscape, I always envisioned creating the industry’s most comprehensive marketing intelligence on international and multicultural audiences,” said Melgoza. “Now, with the combination of Claritas’ incredible customer segmentation depth and capabilities and Geoscape’s multicultural targeting, that vision will become a reality while helping further position clients for growth.”
Clients will realize the benefits of the breadth of both organization’s insights in 2018, Nazzaro said, with future enhancements forthcoming as the two companies integrate.
To learn how you can sell smarter and win bigger, visit www.claritas.com .
About Claritas
Founded in 1971, Claritas provides best-in-class consumer segmentation analysis for improved marketing efficiencies. Claritas’ proprietary segmentation algorithm and differentiated data sources provide unique insights to businesses regarding their marketplace and customers. Through Claritas’ core product, PRIZM ® Premier Segmentation, clients can better understand where their consumers live, work, play and shop for more effective and efficient marketing across all channels.
A former division of Nielsen, Claritas is now independently owned by the global alternative asset manager The Carlyle Group (NASDAQ: CG), in partnership with the Indian Hill Group.
For more information, please visit www.claritas.com or www.mybestsegments.com .
About Geoscape
Geoscape ( http://www.geoscape.com ) provides automated intelligence systems, unique data products, research and analytic services for companies seeking to accelerate growth by tapping into the growth of new mainstream consumers in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The online Geoscape Intelligence System (GIS), the DirecTarget ® database enrichment system and a variety of geo-demographic, consumer, business and media databases enable actionable insights that lead our clients to gain significant business advantages.
Geoscape was represented by investment bank Petsky Prunier LLC.
Attachments:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/9225ea3f-f6d5-40cc-9f36-b6d30b4cd1d3
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4550b5a6-8dc9-46c4-a9e8-ece03a1358af
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/e72f34c4-cad2-4221-8007-1a8988b30dfd
Kevin Kemper Claritas 6142568326 kkemper@goupward.com
Source: Claritas