SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Prosper Marketplace, a leading peer-to-peer lending platform connecting borrowers and investors, today announced it has appointed Justine Metz as Executive Vice President of Marketing.
Metz brings more than 25 years of marketing experience and joins Prosper from SRS Acquiom, a financial firm that specializes with M&A transactions. Prior to that, Justine served as Head of Global Wealth and Investment Management Marketing and Sales Support at Bank of America, where she was responsible for driving growth, profitability and loyalty for Bank of America’s Wealth Management business, Merrill Lynch and US Trust. She has also held senior positions at Fidelity Investments, Morgan Stanley and GE Capital (GEFA).
“Justine is a strong leader with a unique background in wealth management, and we’re thrilled to welcome her to the team,” said David Kimball, CEO, Prosper Marketplace. “As we continue to focus on growth, Justine will play an instrumental role in enhancing the customer experience, building brand loyalty and strengthening our acquisition channels to bring new borrowers and investors to the Prosper platform.”
“This is an exciting time to be joining Prosper,” said Justine Metz. “I’m inspired by the company’s strong leadership, core values and steadfast commitment to the client, and believe now is the opportune moment to increase brand awareness and deepen the relationship between Prosper and its customers.”
Justine’s appointment is effective immediately. She is reporting to Prosper CEO, David Kimball.
About Prosper Marketplace
Prosper’s mission is to advance financial well-being. The company’s online lending platform connects people who want to borrow money with individuals and institutions that want to invest in consumer credit. Borrowers get access to affordable fixed-rate, fixed-term personal loans. Investors have the opportunity to earn solid returns via a data-driven underwriting model. To date, over $11 billion in personal loans have been originated through the Prosper platform for debt consolidation and large purchases such as home improvement projects, medical expenses and special occasions.
Prosper Marketplace, Inc. was founded in 2005 and is headquartered in San Francisco. The lending platform is owned by Prosper Funding LLC, a subsidiary of Prosper Marketplace, Inc. Loans originated through the Prosper marketplace are made by WebBank, member FDIC. Visit www.prosper.com and follow @Prosperloans to learn more. Prosper notes are offered by Prospectus .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005966/en/
Prosper Marketplace, Inc.
Sarah Cain, 415-593-5474
scain@prosper.com
Source: Prosper Marketplace, Inc.