- Brandon Jones Joins as Director, Client Manager -
- Matthew Alsua Joins as Director, Business Banking Client Manager -
IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Opus Bank (“Opus”) (NASDAQ: OPB) announced today the expansion of its Commercial Banking and Business Banking teams with the hires of two additional senior bankers.
Brandon Jones, a 17-year banking and finance veteran, joined Opus as Director, Client Manager and is responsible for further expanding Opus’ commercial and corporate client base in Orange County, California.
Matthew Alsua, a 20-year banking veteran, joined Opus as Director, Business Banking Client Manager and is responsible for partnering with Opus’ retail banking teams to provide tailored client-centric solutions to small businesses throughout our West Coast footprint.
Geoff Anfuso, Executive Vice President, Co-Chief Lending Officer, Head of Commercial and Specialty Banking, stated, “We are proud to have Brandon join Opus’ Commercial Banking team in Orange County. Brandon is a highly regarded banker with deep roots and a wealth of experience structuring and delivering asset-based, acquisition, and term financing; treasury management services; and owner occupied real estate lending solutions to entrepreneurs, business owners, and lower-middle and middle market companies in Orange County.”
Ryan Baderian, Senior Vice President, Senior Managing Director, Head of Business Development, stated, “I am pleased to welcome Matt as he joins Opus’ Business Banking team. Matt holds a tremendous depth of experience in his market, providing banking products, services, and solutions to entrepreneurs, business owners, and small businesses.” Mr. Baderian added, “We look forward to Matt’s contributions as Opus continues to grow its loan origination volumes, deposit base, market presence, and overall relationship-based commercial banking franchise in the metropolitan markets on the West Coast.”
Mr. Jones joins Opus most recently from First Citizens Bank, where from 2015 he served as Vice President, Commercial Banker. While at First Citizens Bank, Mr. Jones was responsible for managing and growing a portfolio of middle market commercial clients in the Southern California markets of Orange County and the Inland Empire. From 2011 to 2015, Mr. Jones served as Vice President, Business Banking Officer at Bank of the West, where he was focused on building client relationships with and providing depository, lending, and treasury management solutions to small and lower middle-market businesses in the South Bay and Downtown areas of Los Angeles. From 2007 to 2011, Mr. Jones served as Vice President, Business Development Officer at Union Bank, where he was responsible for developing and growing a portfolio of senior term, commercial real estate, and SBA loans. Earlier in his career, Mr. Jones served as Premier Banking Client Manager at Bank of America. Mr. Jones began his career in 2000 at UBS/PaineWebber, where he served as Financial Advisor. Mr. Jones holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration with an emphasis in Finance from Loyola Marymount University.
Mr. Alsua joins Opus from Union Bank, where he served from 2004 to 2017 most recently as Vice President, Portfolio Manager/Business Client Advisor. While at Union Bank, Mr. Alsua focused on providing senior debt financing and banking products and solutions to small and lower-middle market companies in Orange County, California. Earlier in his career, Mr. Alsua served as Assistant Manager within the retail banking divisions of US Bank and Wells Fargo. Mr. Alsua began his banking career at Wells Fargo in 1997.
Connect with Opus Bank
OpusBank.com │ LinkedIn │ Twitter │ YouTube │ Facebook
About Opus Bank
Opus Bank is an FDIC insured California-chartered commercial bank with $7.3 billion of total assets, $5.1 billion of total loans, and $6.1 billion in total deposits as of September 30, 2017. Opus Bank provides superior ideas and solutions, and banking products to its clients through its Retail Bank, Commercial Bank, Merchant Bank and Correspondent Bank. Opus Bank offers a suite of treasury and cash management and depository solutions and a wide range of loan products, including commercial, healthcare, media and entertainment, corporate finance, multifamily residential, commercial real estate and structured finance, and is an SBA preferred lender. Opus Bank offers commercial escrow services and facilitates 1031 Exchange transactions through its Escrow and Exchange divisions. Opus Bank provides clients with financial and advisory services related to raising equity capital, targeted acquisition and divestiture strategies, general mergers and acquisitions, debt and equity financing, balance sheet restructuring, valuation, strategy and performance improvement through its Merchant Banking division and its broker-dealer subsidiary, Opus Financial Partners, LLC, Member FINRA/SIPC. Opus Bank’s alternative asset IRA custodian subsidiary has over $16 billion of custodial assets and approximately 52,000 client accounts, which are comprised of self-directed investors, financial institutions, capital raisers and financial advisors. Opus Bank operates 50 banking offices, including 31 in California, 16 in the Seattle/Puget Sound region in Washington, two in the Phoenix metropolitan area of Arizona and one in Portland, Oregon. Opus Bank is an Equal Housing Lender. For additional information about Opus Bank, please visit our website: www.opusbank.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This release may include forward-looking statements related to Opus’ plans, beliefs and goals, which involve certain risks, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking information presented in this press release is not a guarantee of future events, and actual events may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking information contained in this press release. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “intend” or “expect” or variations thereon or similar terminology. All such statements speak only as of the date made, and Opus undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005305/en/
Opus Bank
Mr. Jeff L. Leonard
SVP, Dir. of Corporate Strategy/Communications
(949) 251-8146
Source: Opus Bank