LOS ANGELES, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - MediaTechnics Corporation (OTC:MEDT) MEDT is pleased to announce that it has begun the process of changing its name and has hired a law firm to file for the name change and a new ticker symbol. The new name will be announced in the next few weeks, following completion of the copyright and trademark filing processes.
Additionally, MaloneBailey LLP has commenced work on our PCAOB audit and upon completion, we intend to file to become a fully reporting company under Section 12 of the Securities Act of 1933. This process has delayed our September 30, 2017 filing with OTC Markets, but we anticipate filing that report within the coming week.
MEDT's subsidiary BlazeNow Inc. has completed a rewrite of its app and website. We anticipate exciting news about BlazeNow in the very near future.
Finally, our website, medtcorp.com , is undergoing a full rewrite.
ABOUT BLAZENOW INC
BlazeNow Inc , a subsidiary of MediaTechnics, is poised to become a leader in the way cannabis connoisseurs access delivery services, head shops, dispensaries and doctors, BlazeNow Inc. has released the its BlazeNow™ app ( www.blazenow.com ) for use by cannabis business owners and consumers. The app enables business owners to provide accurate and up to date information to consumers and provides a much-needed advertising tool for small businesses, and up and coming cannabis brands.
The product and consumer data that we collect through our platform is valuable to entrepreneurs, investors, advertisers, policymakers, and more. By offering a premium quality product and customer service at an affordable price we are positioned to be an integral part of this emerging industry. "We are working tirelessly to add new features and improve the site in order to provide a premium user experience," says Jeremy Carr, CEO of MediaTechnics and BlazeNow Inc.
Be sure to visit the company's websites: www.blazenow.com to sign up for the company's EMAIL ALERTS to stay current on news.
Shareholders and interest holders may also stay current with BlazeNow Updates:
Twitter: @BlazeNow420 , or
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/blazenow420
ABOUT MEDIATECHNICS CORPORATION
MediaTechnics Corporation (OTC PINK: MEDT) ( http://www.bloomberg.com/Quote: /MEDT:US ) and its wholly owned subsidiary BlazeNow Inc, specialize in providing ancillary products and services to the medical and recreational Cannabis industries. Our management will utilize industry experience to target the areas of the market with the highest profit potentials. We believe in the future legitimacy and profitability of the industry based on recent studies showing bi-partisan support and demand for Cannabis. We believe that Cannabis provides a healthier alternative to conventional pharmaceutical and recreational drugs and will play an important role in the future of our country's health care. We are determined to be a dominant force in defining this emerging market.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Certain Statements contained in this release that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"), and it is the Company's intention and belief that all such statements are covered by the safe harbors created by the Act. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "estimates," "anticipates," "projects," "plans," "expects," may," "should" and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of the company and speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date when they are made.
SOURCE MediaTechnics Corporation