LOS ANGELES, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Loyola Marymount University announced that Dayle M. Smith of Clarkson University will lead the College of Business Administration as its next dean. She will begin her term on June 1, 2018.
"Dean Smith possesses the expertise, creativity, and vision to chart the promising future of one of the country's top-ranked business schools," said Thomas Poon, LMU's executive vice president and provost. "Our Silicon Beach and Los Angeles location provides unmatched opportunities for our ambitious students and successful alumni around the globe. As a nationally esteemed leader, Dean Smith will bring her reputation for innovation and entrepreneurialism to transform how we educate tomorrow's change makers."
Smith is dean of Clarkson's David D. Reh School of Business, nationally ranked in its interdisciplinary entrepreneurship and global supply chain programs, and its online MBA program. She is also a tenured professor of consumer and organizational studies, holding the Elmer Gates Endowed Professorship for Innovation Culture. During her tenure at Clarkson, she led efforts that included growing a diverse faculty, developing new programs, merging two business schools, and fundraising for the naming of the business school, student startups, scholarships and faculty positions.
Prior to joining Clarkson in 2013, Smith was on the faculty at USC and Georgetown University, and spent 20 years at the University of San Francisco as a professor of leadership and organizational behavior. She was a Fulbright senior scholar in 2010-11 and has taught in Asia and Europe.
Among her numerous awards and recognitions, last May Dean Smith was asked to chair the Women Administrators in Management Education affinity group, constituting more than 600 business educators and leaders at the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Smith is the former president of the Northeast Business Deans Association and sits on the board of an international NGO, Viviendas Leon, among other leadership positions.
"I'm thrilled about joining LMU at this exciting time in its history," Smith said. "With its burgeoning partnerships in Silicon Beach and opportunities to collaborate and grow creative, interdisciplinary programs across the campus and in the community, CBA is poised to leverage the entrepreneurial spirit among students and faculty and soar in the years ahead."
Smith was selected to lead the college after a nationwide search to replace Dennis Draper, who last year announced his intention to step down after 11 years as dean of the college. LMU retained Storbeck/Pimentel & Associates for the search.
Smith is the author of more than 25 books and numerous articles in her discipline, with most of her research focused on leadership, communication and organizational behavior. As a consultant, she has specialized in design thinking, developing innovation cultures, leadership and team development as well as executive coaching.
She earned her Ph.D. in organizational communication at USC. In her free time, she enjoys travel, kayaking, tennis, golf, and spending time with her grandchildren.
ABOUT LOYOLA MARYMOUNT UNIVERSITY
Loyola Marymount University, the University of Silicon Beach, is ranked in the top 12 percent of higher education institutions nationally by The Wall Street Journal. Founded in 1911, LMU is a Catholic, Jesuit, and Marymount university with more than 6,100 undergraduate students and more than 3,000 graduate and law students. LMU offers 58 undergraduate majors and 53 minor programs, along with 46 master's degree programs, one education doctorate, one juris doctorate, one doctorate of juridical science and 13 credential/authorization programs. LMU's intercollegiate athletics teams compete in the West Coast Conference with 22 Division I and varsity sports.
LMU news and events are found at: www.lmu.edu/news .
CONTACT: Mason Stockstill, 310-338-5133, mason.stockstill@lmu.edu
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lmu-names-dayle-smith-as-dean-of-college-of-business-administration-300580139.html
SOURCE Loyola Marymount University