SCHAUMBURG, Ill., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Union Leasing, Inc., the premier mid-market fleet management company and a subsidiary of Sasser Family Holdings, today announced that Jeff Malko has been named vice president of Customer Experience effective January 8.
"Consistently delivering personalized customer service, giving our customers the ability to effectively manage their fleets when they choose, and flexibility that meets our customers' needs are what drive Union Leasing. It's one thing to be attentive and responsive when pitching a customer, but it's equally important to follow through on the promises you made when trying to win their business. I'm really fortunate to work with a team and for a company that's truly committed to meeting our clients' needs and to empowering employees to be successful at every level. I am excited to have the opportunity to help us continue working hard to earn the trust of our customers every day," said Malko.
In his new role, Malko will lead Union's Client Services, Purchasing, and License & Title departments. He has been a part of the Union team for almost 10 years--first as regional Sales manager in 2008 and, beginning in January 2016, as regional vice president of Sales. Malko was previously a Business Development manager for GE Capital and a territory manager for Unilever.
"Jeff's sales background gives him on-the-ground insight into the importance of providing the highest level of personalized service after potential customers become existing customers. This is an example of stewardship in action that Jeff and the entire Union team demonstrate every day. I got to know Jeff earlier this year while we visited customers together. I saw firsthand how he interacts with them, as well as the respect he has among his colleagues. The fact that Jeff is a salesman at his core and knows the industry inside and out will be a big advantage when it comes to managing our customer experience teams," said Todd Heemsoth, president, Union Leasing.
About Union Leasing, Inc. and Sasser Family Holdings, Inc.:
Union Leasing Inc. provides flexible, vehicle lease financing and highly customized fleet management services to corporate and rental customers nationwide. Union Leasing was established in 1955 and is a subsidiary of Sasser Family Holdings, Inc. Sasser Family Holdings is a fourth generation, family-held transportation asset services and management company with roots dating to 1928. Other Sasser Family Holdings subsidiary business units include Chicago Freight Car Leasing Co., Union Leasing, Inc., CF Asia Pacific Group PTY Ltd., CF Rail Services, NxGen Rail Services, LLC, Express 4X4 Truck Rental, and Xcēd Aviation Services, LLC. The businesses are leaders in providing commercial and industrial-focused rail, ground support, and vehicle transportation equipment solutions including asset leasing, fleet administration management, asset repair and maintenance, and innovative technology solutions throughout North America. For more information, visit Union Leasing, Inc. at www.unionleasing.com or Sasser Family Holdings, Inc. at www.sfhsinc.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/union-leasing-inc-names-jeff-malko-as-vice-president-of-customer-experience-300580947.html
SOURCE Union Leasing, Inc.