MARKHAM, Ontario, Jan. Sangoma Technologies Corporation (TSX VENTURE: STC), a trusted leader in delivering Unified Communications solutions for SMBs, Enterprises, OEMs, and Service Providers, both on-premises and in the cloud, today announced the acquisition of all key assets of the Converged Communication Division from Dialogic Corporation.
Dialogic, one of the industry's true pioneers in the transition from PSTN to IP and Cloud based networks, is headquartered in Parsippany, New Jersey. It is one of the most recognized, reputable and respected brands in the industry. The CCD division offers a full line of gateways and interface boards, with over 25% of sales in recurring services revenue, to customers around the globe.
"We continue to look for prudent ways to grow our customer base, our product portfolio, our talented team of employees, our distribution network and our overall revenue," said Bill Wignall, President and CEO of Sangoma. Wignall continued, "This acquisition, our sixth in 6 years, is expected to add approximately $15 million of sales over the next twelve months. It is one more step along the way, as we seek to add scale to our business by augmenting our organic growth with selective acquisitions, during a time of industry consolidation. I'd like to welcome all our new staff and clients to the growing Sangoma family."
The acquisition provides Sangoma with several strategic advantages, including: accelerated sales growth, expanded recurring revenue, stronger gross margins, increased profitability, about 45 excellent employees at a time when competition for talent is increasing, and complementary products that the Company understands well. In addition, this acquisition will add hundreds of larger enterprise/service provider/OEM customers, dozens of leading channel partners around the world, and strong supply chain capabilities which will allow Sangoma to significantly expand the scale and scope of its operations. The CCD product lines will become an integral part of the Sangoma portfolio over the coming year.
Following the acquisition, the General Manager of CCD, Mr. Jim Machi will join Sangoma and continue to lead the division, providing continuity and reassurance to CCD employees, customers, and channel partners across the globe.
"I am extremely excited about joining the expanding Sangoma family," said Jim Machi, General Manager. Machi continued, "I really look forward to continuing to serve the customer base I have known for a long time, with Sangoma's broad portfolio of on-premise or cloud-based solutions. The team here is eager to be part of a successful growth company like Sangoma."
"This transaction is part of a broader strategy we put in place when I was appointed CEO," said Bill Crank, President and CEO of Dialogic. "Sangoma offers the CCD customers, partners, and employees the best possible combination of product and services continuity, so we are very pleased with this outcome for all parties."
Terms of the transaction will be more fully described in subsequent disclosures as required, but in summary, Sangoma is acquiring all the key assets of the CCD division for approximately $5.7 million in cash, at closing, subject to customary working capital adjustments. In conjunction with this transaction, Sangoma has extended the company's borrowing capability with its current Canadian bank from $4.5 million to $8.5 million, to ensure that it continues to have the flexibility to grow.
Outlook for fiscal years 2017 and 2018
The acquisition is expected to be accretive immediately, and its closing in early January implies that the results of the CCD division will be consolidated into the Company's results for the final 6 months of fiscal 2018.
Sangoma had previously provided guidance of $46 million in revenue and $4 million in EBITDA for fiscal year 2018. Based upon consolidating results of this acquisition for the third and fourth financial quarters, it is expected that this transaction will increase revenue to at least $53 million and EBITDA in excess of $5.5 million, for fiscal 2018.
Transaction Advisor
INFOR Financial Inc. acted as the financial advisor to Sangoma in connection with the acquisition of these assets from Dialogic.
Conference Call
Management will discuss this acquisition more fully on a conference call Thursday January 11, at 3pm Eastern Standard Time. The dial-in number for the call is 1-800-319-4610 (International 1-604-638-5340) and investors are requested to dial in 5 to 10 minutes before the scheduled start time and ask to join the Sangoma call.
About Sangoma Technologies Corporation
Sangoma Technologies is a trusted leader in delivering Unified Communications solutions for SMBs, Enterprises, OEMs, Carriers and service providers. Sangoma's globally, scalable offerings include both on-premises and cloud-based phone systems, telephony services and industry leading Voice-Over-IP solutions, which together provide seamless connectivity between traditional infrastructure and new technologies. Sangoma's products and services are used in leading PBX, IVR, contact center, carrier networks and data-communication applications worldwide. Businesses can achieve enhanced levels of collaboration, productivity and ROI with Sangoma. Everything Connects, Connect with Sangoma!
Founded in 1984, Sangoma Technologies Corporation is publicly traded on the TSX Venture Exchange (TSX VENTURE: STC). Additional information on Sangoma can be found at: www.sangoma.com .
About Dialogic
Dialogic is a leading cloud-optimized solutions provider for real-time communications media, applications, and infrastructure to service providers and developers around the globe. Based in Parsippany, NJ with offices worldwide, Dialogic helps 48 of the world's top 50 mobile operators, and nearly 3,000 application developers build and deploy on agile networks. Learn more about how Dialogic is enabling agility by following us on Twitter @Dialogic, and visiting www.dialogic.com and the Dialogic Blog for the latest industry news, trends and advice.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the future success of our business, development strategies and future opportunities.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning estimates of future revenue, expected expenditures, expected future production and cash flows, and other statements which are not historical facts. When used in this document, the words such as "could", "plan", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "potential", "should" and similar expressions indicate forward-looking statements.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, as there can be no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations upon which they are based will occur. By their nature, forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management on the date that the statements 