* Housing starts fall 8.2 percent in December
* Single-family starts drop 11.8 percent
* Building permits slip 0.1 percent
* Weekly jobless claims tumble 41,000
WASHINGTON, Jan 18 (Reuters) - U.S. homebuilding fell more than expected in December, recording its biggest drop in just over a year, amid a steep decline in the construction of single-family housing units following two months of hefty gains.
Other data on Thursday showed the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits dropped to a 45-year low last week. The decline in claims for jobless benefits, however, probably exaggerated the health of the labor market as data for seven states, including California, were estimated.
Housing starts decreased 8.2 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.192 million units, the Commerce Department said. November's sales pace was revised up to 1.299 million units from the previously reported 1.297 million units.
The percentage drop for housing starts in December was the largest since November 2016. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts decreasing to a pace of 1.275 million units last month.
U.S. financial markets were little moved by the data.
Homebuilding increased 2.4 percent to 1.202 million units in 2017, the highest level since 2007. December's moderation in homebuilding is likely to be temporary amid strong demand for housing that is being driven by a robust labor market.
Builders, however, continue to struggle with labor and land shortages as well as more expensive lumber. A survey on Wednesday showed confidence among homebuilders slipping from an 18-year high in January. Builders expected a dip in buyer traffic and sales over the next six months.
Last month, single-family homebuilding, which accounts for the largest share of the housing market, tumbled 11.8 percent to a rate of 836,000 units as construction fell in the South, the Northeast and Midwest. Homebuilding was unchanged in the West.
Starts for the volatile multi-family housing segment rose 1.4 percent to a rate of 356,000 units.
While building permits edged down 0.1 percent to a rate of 1.302 million units in December, they outpaced starts. That suggests homebuilding will rebound in the coming months.
Building permits increased 4.7 percent to 1.263 million units in 2017, also the highest level since 2007.
Single-family home permits advanced 1.8 percent in December, while permits for the construction of multi-family homes fell 3.9 percent.
CLAIMS FALL SHARPLY
In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said initial   1973.
Economists had   increased over the previous four weeks, with economists   unseasonably cold   California, Arkansas, Kentucky, Maine, Hawaii, Virginia and Wyoming were estimated.  
It also said claims-taking procedures continued to be disrupted in the Virgin Islands months after they were battered by Hurricanes Irma and Maria, while claims processing in Puerto Rico was still not back to normal.
Last  
In its Beige Book report of anecdotal information on business activity collected from contacts nationwide, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that "most districts cited on-going labor market tightness and challenges finding qualified workers across skills and sectors." (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao)