NEW DELHI--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Azure Power (NYSE: AZRE), a leading independent solar power producer in India, announced the appointment of Dipti Swain as the General Counsel of Azure Power.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005676/en/
Dipti Swain, General Counsel, Azure Power (Photo: Business Wire)
Mr. Swain comes on board with 12 years of diversified work experience across multiple sectors and functions. Most recently he was a partner with Luthra & Luthra law firm covering securities law, mergers and acquisitions, capital market transactions and other corporate law matters for leading Indian and overseas corporations. He has provided legal advisory for transactions over US$ 33 billion for foreign as well as Indian investors and corporations. Dipti has a number of publications to his credit in various national and international journals and is visiting faculty at law schools.
Speaking on this occasion, Inderpreet Wadhwa, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Azure Power said, "We are pleased to welcome Dipti as the General Counsel of Azure Power. Given his proven track record as a well-established and respected legal professional in corporate and securities law in India, we are confident that his contributions will further strengthen the Company’s strong governance, enhance our efforts to bring in the right expertise, and help Azure Power remain on the forefront of best practices.”
Commenting on the appointment, Dipti Swain said, “Azure Power, being an established leader in the solar power industry in India, is at the forefront of energy transformation through renewables in the country. I look forward to leading effective risk and change management as part of Azure Power’s growth plans.”
About Azure Power
Azure Power (NYSE: AZRE) is a leading independent solar power producer with a pan-Indian portfolio of over 1,600 MWs. With its in-house engineering, procurement and construction expertise and advanced in-house operations and maintenance capability, Azure Power provides low-cost and reliable solar power solutions to customers throughout India. It has developed, constructed and operated solar projects of varying sizes, from utility scale to rooftop, since its inception in 2008. Highlights include the construction of India’s first private utility scale solar PV power plant in 2009 and the implementation of the first MW scale rooftop project under the smart city initiative in 2013.
For more information, visit: www.azurepower.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005676/en/
Azure Power
Investor Contact
Nathan Judge, CFA
ir@azurepower.com
Investor Relations
or
Media Contact
Samitla Subba
pr@azurepower.com
+91-11- 4940 9854
Marketing
Source: Azure Power Global Ltd