TAMPA, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Carter Multifamily Fund Management Company, LLC (“CMF” or the “Sponsor”), is proud to announce that Joe Laganza has joined the firm as Senior Vice President of National Accounts. In this role, Mr. Laganza will be focused on expanding the Carter Multifamily Growth & Income Fund, LLC (or the “Fund”) selling group members and related financial advisors. He will also be responsible for facilitation and oversight of company updates to the Fund’s Broker-Dealer and RIA partners.
“I am excited about the opportunity to join CMF, and look forward to building a strong selling group of quality Broker-Dealer and RIA partners,” said Joe Laganza, Senior Vice President of National Accounts.
Mr. Laganza joins the CMF team from Shopoff Realty Investments where he was the Senior Vice President, National Accounts Director. He brings over twenty years of experience in the financial services industry, and has a rounded knowledge on investment products, financial analysis and portfolio administration. Throughout his career, Mr. Laganza has worked for several sponsors, including Atel Securities, Griffin Capital Securities and Lightstone Securities on a national account level.
Mr. Laganza received his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Finance, and his MBA from Seton Hall University. He also has his Series 7, 24, and 63 Licenses.
Cindy Pfeifer, Chief Executive Officer of CMF states, “We are very excited to welcome Joe to our team at CMF. Not only will he bring a strong background of the industry to our experienced team, but also an extensive history of building meaningful relationships within the Broker-Dealer community.”
“Joe Laganza comes to CMF with a wealth of experience having been in the industry so long, and will be instrumental when it comes to building a strong selling group of Broker-Dealer and RIA firms,” said John Carter, Founder and Chairman of CMF.
Joe Laganza may be contacted at jlaganza@carterfunds.com .
About Carter Multifamily Fund Management Company, LLC
Carter Multifamily Fund Management Company, LLC (“CMF” or the “Sponsor”) is a real estate company focused on acquiring multifamily real estate investments that offer value-add enhancement opportunities. Driven by over 100 years of combined experience in the real estate industry, CMF’s leadership team leverages beneficial capital and key industry relationships to build a high-quality portfolio of multifamily investments focused on GROWTH and INCOME. www.cartermultifamily.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006403/en/
Carter Multifamily Fund Management Company, LLC
Media Contact
Stacy Sheedy, 813-316-4292
Marketing Manager
ssheedy@carterfunds.com
Source: Carter Multifamily Fund Management Company, LLC