WALTHAM, Mass., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Lionbridge Technologies, Inc., the world's most trusted translation and digital communications company, today announced its participation in the AI Assistant Summit, an event that will explore advances and emerging trends in AI-powered digital assistants, being held at the Hyatt Regency San Francisco from January 25-26. The event brings together the world's leading innovators in predictive intelligence, voice recognition and data mining who will reveal insights and strategies for organizations to leverage AI assistants in their business.
Jane Nemcova, Vice President and General Manager of Global Services for Machine Intelligence at Lionbridge, will participate in a panel discussion, "As Our AI Systems Become More Capable, Should Ethics be an Integral Component to your Business Strategy?," alongside executives from District 3, McGill University, Sensely and Ethical Resolve. The panel discussion will include a comprehensive debate on how to integrate ethics when developing a corporate AI strategy.
WHO:
Jane Nemcova, Vice President and General Manager, Global Services for Machine Intelligence, Lionbridge
WHAT:
Panel: As Our AI Systems Become More Capable, Should Ethics be an Integral Component to your Business Strategy?
WHERE:
Hyatt Regency San Francisco
5 Embarcadero Center
San Francisco, CA 94111
WHEN:
Friday, January 26, 2018
1:35– 2:15 p.m. PST
"We are excited to participate in this important dialogue and share our unique perspective on the critical importance of ethics in any AI business strategy," said Nemcova. "Lionbridge is committed to helping organizations drive global growth and improve customer experiences through technology, and we look forward a lively discussion with industry experts on the role of ethics in AI and digital assistants."
Lionbridge provides a global network of specialists who help clients test, optimize and roll out products and services in all languages and markets in which they compete. Lionbridge has an unparalleled track record of delivering large complex programs for the world's leading brands and companies.
To learn more about this event, please visit https://www.re-work.co/events/ai-assistant-summit-san-francisco-2018 .
About Lionbridge
Lionbridge enables more than 4,500 of the world's leading brands to increase global market share and drive deep engagement with their customers and communities. Our innovative cloud technology platforms and our global crowd of more than 400,000 professional cloud workers, provide detail-critical business processes, including translation, online marketing, global content management and application testing solutions, which ensure global brand consistency, local relevancy and technical usability across all touch points of the customer lifecycle. Based in Waltham, Mass., Lionbridge maintains solution centers in 27 countries. To learn more, visit www.lionbridge.com .
Media Contact:
Lauren Palazzo
Text100
NALionbridge@text100.com
+1-617-399-4909
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lionbridge-to-discuss-ai-ethics-at-ai-assistant-summit-300588091.html
SOURCE Lionbridge Technologies, Inc.