CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Korn Ferry (NYSE:KFY) today announced that Brad Berke has joined the firm as Vice Chairman, Global Supply Chain Officers in the Supply Chain Center of Expertise. He will be based in the firm’s Chicago office.
Mr. Berke joins Korn Ferry from a global recruiting firm, where he was Global Managing Partner of the Supply Chain & Operations Officers practice. There, he conducted top-level executive searches for chief supply chain officers and chief procurement officers for a broad range of clients across many industry sectors, including automotive, consumer durables, consumer packaged goods, financial services, food, industrial, life sciences, luxury and retail.
“Brad brings over two decades of experience to our firm, and has led hundreds of chief supply chain officer searches around the globe,” said Neil Collins, Regional Market Leader, North America, Global Industrial Market, Korn Ferry. “He is a true leader in his field and will further elevate our strategic presence at the very top of the supply chain function.”
Earlier in his career, Mr. Berke was Executive Vice President & Equity Partner with a top-20 generalist boutique search firm. He began his career with A.T. Kearney as a partner in the search firm’s Consumer, Industrial and Operations & Supply Chain Management practices.
Mr. Berke earned his Bachelor of Arts from Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa, and Master of Business Administration from Webster University. He is a member of the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) and an advising member of Procurement 50, part of the World 50 organization.
About Korn Ferry
Korn Ferry is a global organizational consulting firm. We help companies design their organization – the structure, the roles and responsibilities, as well as how they compensate, develop and motivate their people. We also help organizations select and hire the talent they need to execute their strategy. Our approximately 7,000 colleagues serve clients in more than 50 countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180105005028/en/
Korn Ferry
Liz Allison, 310-556-8583
Liz.Allison@kornferry.com
Source: Korn Ferry