1 COMMENTS Intel Corp. INTC 0.17% is so dominant in its markets that any security flaw in its chips will have only a modest impact on the company in the short-term. The long-term is different, especially if Intel lets its credibility slip.
The security vulnerabilities found by a team of Google researchers affect many different systems running on different chips and software. But only Intel is paying the price so far. The chip giant’s market value has slipped more than $10​ billion—nearly ​5%—since Tuesday’s close.
That is largely because Intel’s chips power the vast majority of personal computers and servers currently in operation. Intel has been working with a consortium of other tech giants to develop fixes since becoming aware of the issue in June. Those fixes are currently being deployed. Intel says most will see a “limited to negligible” performance impact from the changes.
The company also says it doesn’t anticipate a financial impact, such as a charge to earnings or a “change in acceptance of our products.” But some of that is due to the simple reality that Intel controls the vast majority of the market for processors for PCs and more than 90% of those sold for servers. In data centers in particular, the big cloud service operators have pressing needs. Combined capital spending by Amazon.com , Microsoft and Google-parent Alphabet Inc. for the first nine months of 2017 was up 28% year over year to $29 billion.
In the long-term, the impact is less clear. Intel faces strong competition as artificial intelligence shapes the future of computing. New data center designs are incorporating different types of chips made by rivals such as Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices. Deep-pocketed customers like Google are also now designing their own processors for part of their cloud workloads. And the future is further complicated by the Chinese government, which is investing heavily in its homegrown chip industry with an aim to take global share.
So Intel can ill afford to give its customers an excuse to look elsewhere—or to demand lower prices. And it doesn’t help that CEO Brian Krzanich made his largest stock sale on record in November following a late-year surge that put Intel’s stock to a 10-year high. That sale was arranged and executed after Intel learned of the vulnerabilities, though the company denies a connection.
Intel has been a laggard in a powerful two-year chip stock rally. If it bungles the handling of this crisis, investors and customers will keep looking elsewhere.
Write to Dan Gallagher at dan.gallagher@wsj.com 
Appeared in the January 5, 2018, print edition as 'Intel Chip Flaw Reveals Company’s Long-Term Challenges.'