RICHMOND, Va., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Genworth Mortgage Insurance ("Genworth"), an operating segment of Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW), today announced the appointment of Steve Hitchings to HFA Director. Steve is a 32-year veteran of GE/Genworth Mortgage Insurance, most recently serving as an Account Development Manager, where for the past five years he has supported Genworth's market-leading Housing Finance Authority (HFA) segment.
In his new role, Hitchings will work directly with Genworth's sales team to continue delivering on the company's already strong HFA value proposition and support the company's growth initiatives. This includes aligning HFA, customer and investor needs to create differentiated and unique borrower solutions, helping more people achieve the dream of homeownership.
"Over the years Steve has brought an unparalleled mix of experience and expertise to our HFA segment, and we're thrilled to have him assume control as we continue growing the platform," said John Clifford, Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations, Genworth Mortgage Insurance. "His deep HFA and business acumen, stellar sales collaboration, exceptional customer focus and robust problem-solving skills make him uniquely qualified to deliver the value and service that our customers have come to expect from us."
Since it first began insuring HFA loans nearly forty years ago, Genworth Mortgage Insurance has paid claims on more than 6,000 HFA loans, and in the last two decades alone has insured over 80,000 HFA loans. Genworth's long-standing HFA Advisory Board, which works to ensure the company is attuned to the unique needs of the segment, illustrates the company's commitment to the HFA space and deep integration with each of its state-level partners. The company also has an array of dedicated HFA experts, including underwriters, risk managers, and industry trainers and consultants.
"We have a long, mutually beneficial history with Genworth," said Tim Hsu, CalHFA's Director of Single Family Lending. "What's made that history work is Genworth's dedication to personal relationships with their clients, and Steve is a great fit to fill the role of HFA Segment Leader. We're all looking forward to working with him to continue our great history."
Hitchings holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and currently resides in Raleigh, North Carolina with his wife.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) is a Fortune 500 insurance holding company committed to helping families achieve the dream of homeownership and address the financial challenges of aging through its leadership positions in mortgage insurance and long term care insurance. Headquartered in Richmond, Virginia, Genworth traces its roots back to 1871 and became a public company in 2004. For more information, visit genworth.com .
From time to time, Genworth releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of genworth.com . From time to time, Genworth's publicly traded subsidiaries, Genworth MI Canada Inc. and Genworth Mortgage Insurance Australia Limited, separately release financial and other information about their operations. This information can be found at http://genworth.ca and http://www.genworth.com.au .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/genworth-promotes-steve-hitchings-to-hfa-director-300583079.html
SOURCE Genworth Financial, Inc.