NEW YORK, Jan. 05, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Adding to its portfolio of managed security detection and response services for enterprise customers, Verizon (NYSE:VZ) (Nasdaq:VZ) today acquired privately held Niddel Corp., a company offering machine-learning-based automated threat hunting.
Terms of the transaction were not announced. Niddel’s advanced technology and services will soon be integrated into, and enhance, Verizon’s existing offerings.
“Using machine learning to improve information accuracy significantly reduces false positives and significantly improves our detection and response capabilities,” said Alexander Schlager, Verizon’s executive director for security services. “Niddel’s Magnet software is an innovative threat-hunting system, and we look forward to integrating this automated solution into the already robust set of managed security services offered by Verizon.”
Felipe Boucas, CEO of Niddel, said, “Verizon is the perfect partner to accelerate our long-term vision of delivering automation and intelligence solutions through machine learning to more organizations throughout the world.”
More information about how Verizon’s managed security services can help protect organizations is available at www.verizonenterprise.com/products/security .
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) (Nasdaq:VZ), headquartered in New York City, has a diverse workforce of 160,100 and generated nearly $126 billion in 2016 revenues. Verizon operates America’s most reliable wireless network and the nation’s premier all-fiber network, and delivers integrated solutions to businesses worldwide. Its Oath subsidiary reaches about one billion people around the world with a dynamic house of media and technology brands.
VERIZON'S ONLINE MEDIA CENTER: News releases, stories, media contacts and other resources are available at www.verizon.com/about/news/ . News releases are also available through an RSS feed. To subscribe, visit www.verizon.com/about/rss-feeds/ .
Media contact:
Bob Varettoni
908-559-6388
robert.a.varettoni@verizon.com
Source:Verizon Communications