SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Logikcull.com , the San Francisco-based technology company that helps legal professionals instantly find evidence, today announced that it has hired cloud software executive Patrick Barry as Chief Operating Officer.
In this role, Barry will guide Logikcull’s go-to-market strategy as it pursues its mission to reduce the cost and risk inherent in litigation, and democratize discovery.
Over his more than 20-year technology career, Barry has managed and grown organizations across all functions and stages. He comes to Logikcull to lead the scaling of the business team.
“In Patrick, we are adding an individual with exceptional character, leadership ability, and talent,” Andy Wilson, Logikcull CEO, said. “His experience and guidance will be crucial as we continue to develop the people, processes and platforms needed to grow a world-class company.”
Barry is leaving his SaaS operational consulting practice to join the company. Previously, he was VP and GM of the Demandforce business at Intuit, where he led a $100 million revenue SaaS division serving small businesses in the services sector. Having joined Demandforce as a startup, Patrick was the company’s CMO, leading marketing, business development and product through the scaling phase, ultimately resulting in Intuit acquiring the company for more than $400 million in 2012.
Before that, he was a VP and GM at Yahoo!, among other roles in tech startups and investing. He also practiced corporate and securities law at Venture Law Group, and has a J.D. from U.C. Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco.
Instant Discovery for Modern Legal Teams
Logikcull.com provides instant discovery for modern legal teams. Its secure, cloud-based solution helps law firms and organizations of all sizes solve the expensive, complex, and risky challenges associated with eDiscovery, internal investigations, and open records response. With Logikcull, you can start a discovery project in five seconds, from anywhere at any time on any device. Reviewing data is as easy as performing a Google search. And in Logikcull, your data is always secure. That’s why it’s trusted by the Fortune 500, Am Law 200, and governments of the biggest cities in the world. For more information, visit Logikcull.com or watch a brief demo .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005120/en/
Logikcull.com
Robert Hilson
Sr. Marketing Director
robert.hilson@logikcull.com
Source: Logikcull