CINCINNATI, Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The E.W. Scripps Company (NYSE: SSP) has appointed Rebecca Riegelsberger as vice president, tax and treasury, effective immediately.
Riegelsberger had been vice president of tax. In her expanded role, she is responsible for treasury operations and bank relationships in addition to leading the corporate tax department in direct and indirect taxes, tax planning and support of acquisitions and divestitures.
She will report to Doug Lyons, who remains senior vice president, treasurer and controller for Scripps.
"Rebecca is a strong leader with a wealth of experience in tax and treasury operations," Lyons said. "Her proven track record in corporate tax will help her continue to serve Scripps well in this new role."
Riegelsberger earned her bachelor's degree in accountancy and her master's in business administration from the University of Cincinnati. She is a certified public accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Ohio Society of Certified Public Accountants. Riegelsberger was tax manager then tax director for Scripps Networks Interactive from 2009 to 2015, before joining E.W. Scripps.
She serves as chair for the Cincinnati chapter of March of Dimes and is a board trustee for business accelerator program Flywheel and for UpSpring, a nonprofit focused on education for children experiencing homelessness.
About Scripps
The E.W. Scripps Company (NYSE: SSP) serves audiences and businesses through a growing portfolio of television, radio and national media brands. With 33 television stations, Scripps is one of the nation's largest independent TV station owners. Scripps runs an expanding collection of local and national journalism and content businesses, including Newsy , the next-generation national news network; podcast industry leader Midroll Media ; and fast-growing national broadcast networks Bounce , Grit , Escape and Laff . Scripps produces original programming including " Pickler & Ben ," runs an award-winning investigative reporting newsroom in Washington, D.C., and is the longtime steward of the Scripps National Spelling Bee . Founded in 1878, Scripps has held for decades to the motto, "Give light and the people will find their own way."
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/scripps-promotes-riegelsberger-to-vice-president-of-tax-and-treasury-300578316.html
SOURCE The E.W. Scripps Company