January 31, 2018 / 7:09 AM / Updated an hour ago LIVE MARKETS-Futures indicate hesitant recovery for European stocks Reuters Staff 4 Min Read * European stocks to recover slightly * Siemens, ArcelorMittal, banks report * Infineon slashes guidance as weak dollar weighs * Asian stocks pulled back further as rising yields bite Jan 31 (Reuters) - Welcome to the home for real time coverage of European equity markets brought to you by Reuters stocks reporters and anchored today by Helen Reid. Reach her on Messenger to share your thoughts on market moves: helen.reid.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net FUTURES INDICATE HESITANT RECOVERY FOR EUROPEAN STOCKS (0708 GMT) Stock futures have opened up 0.1 percent across the major European benchmarks, suggesting a rather hesitant recovery from yesterday's sharp falls. While the STOXX, DAX and CAC40 are set to rise, ending January on a positive note, the FTSE 100 is on track to fall further with futures down 0.2 percent. A rising pound could be piling extra pressure onto the British index. (Helen Reid) WEAK DOLLAR WOES FOR INFINEON (0657 GMT) In an early sign the weak dollar could be a strain on some European companies, particularly those reliant on exports, chipmaker Infineon just cut its 2017/18 revenue guidance, blaming the greenback's weakness. The stock is indicated down 1.9 percent in pre-market trade. (Helen Reid) RESULTS WATCH: SIEMENS STRUGGLES, ARCELORMITTAL RESUMES DIVIDENDS (0641 GMT) Results are rolling in thick and fast today from industrials as well as several banks. German engineering group Siemens reports a fall in quarterly industrial profit due to continued weak demand from the power and gas sector. Profit was in line with analysts' forecasts, but profit margin shrank. Interestingly the group says it got a net 437 million euro benefit from U.S. tax reforms in the first quarter. The world's largest producer of steel, ArcelorMittal, was more upbeat, with profit ahead of expectations and resuming dividend payments after skipping them for 2015 and 2016. The $0.10 payout undershoots analysts' expectations of $0.30, though. A slew of banks reporting today as well, with ING's Q4 profit missing expectations while Sweden's SEB raises its dividend after strong results. Meanwhile impairments in its U.S. unit dented Santander's numbers. The pressure's on for European banks, a leading sector in this year's rally, to deliver convincing results, so it'll be interesting to see how banking shares react today. Also in results to watch today, especially considering the tech rally after AMS results earlier this week, will be chipmaker Infineon. More on that soon. (Helen Reid)