BOSTON, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- John Hancock Retirement Plan Services (JHRPS) promoted Mark Lowbridge, CFP, CKP, to divisional vice president of Business Development. In this role, he is responsible for leading a team of business development directors who support regional vice presidents and serve key broker dealer relationships nationally. He reports to George Revoir, senior vice president of Distribution, and Bob Carroll, national sales manager. The appointment is effective immediately.
Having begun his John Hancock career as a regional wholesaler in the annuity division in 2006, Lowbridge joined JHRPS in 2010 as director, Field Sales, responsible for working with one of John Hancock's significant broker dealer partners, launching JHRPS' CE program, developing presentations and serving as a national spokesperson, simplifying the complex topic of retirement plans for advisors. Previously he had worked in financial services as an advisor and later a producing complex sales manager. Prior to that, Lowbridge served in the U.S. Army during the first Gulf War.
"Over the past four years our business development director (BDD) program has grown and become an integral part of our career progression, sales success and a significant leverage point for RVP teams," said Revoir. "With his leadership and national coverage approach to broker dealer support, top down relationship management with broker dealer field influencers and execution on our CE strategy, Mark is ideal to take the BDD program to the next level."
About John Hancock Retirement Plan Services
John Hancock is a leader in the retirement plan services marketplace, servicing more than 57,000 plans and helping 2.8 million participants, making it one of the largest full-service providers of 401(k) plans across all plan sizes.
About John Hancock and Manulife
John Hancock is a division of Manulife Financial Corporation, a leading international financial services group that helps people achieve their dreams and aspirations by putting customers' needs first and providing the right advice and solutions. We operate primarily as John Hancock in the United States, and Manulife elsewhere. We provide financial advice, insurance and wealth and asset management solutions for individuals, groups and institutions. Assets under management and administration by Manulife and its subsidiaries were over $1 trillion (US$806 billion) as of September 30, 2017. Manulife Financial Corporation trades as MFC on the TSX, NYSE, and PSE, and under 945 on the SEHK. Manulife can be found at manulife.com .
One of the largest life insurers in the United States, John Hancock supports approximately 10 million Americans with a broad range of financial products, including life insurance , annuities , investments, 401(k) plans , and college savings plans . We also offer advice through Signator, a network of independent financial advisors. Additional information about John Hancock may be found at johnhancock.com .
John Hancock Retirement Plan Services, Boston, MA 02210.
PR-2018-05 MGTS-P 35780-GE 01/18-35780 MGR011918427911
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/john-hancock-retirement-plan-services-promotes-mark-lowbridge-to-divisional-vice-president-of-business-development-300587314.html
SOURCE John Hancock Retirement Plan Services