WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Hooper, Lundy & Bookman, P.C. is pleased to announce that Lisa K. Layman has joined the firm as a principal in our Government Relations and Public Policy Department.
“We are very pleased that Lisa has joined the firm at such an important time for federal health care policy,” said Managing Partner, Robert W. Lundy. “Lisa’s health policy expertise and government relations experience complements the considerable experience of our other health policy experts to serve the growing needs of our clients.”
Previously with Brown Rudnick, Ms. Layman brings with her 25 years of experience in political and legislative affairs, and a comprehensive knowledge of health policy issues. She served as a senior health policy advisor to several U.S. senators. She has drafted, analyzed and negotiated legislation involving Medicare, Medicaid, prescription drugs, managed care, health information technology and private health insurance. She also was previously the Vice President for Government Affairs at the Generic Pharmaceutical Association.
“I am looking forward to working with a firm that has its sole focus on health care,” said Ms. Layman. “The collective health care experience of Hooper, Lundy & Bookman’s government relations professionals and attorneys will be a key support for the unique challenges each of my clients face.”
"We’re all excited to have Lisa join the team. She brings years of experience and good judgement from her work both on and off the hill,” said Marty Corry, Chair of the firm’s Government Relations & Public Policy Department.
Ms. Layman can be reached at 202.580.7715 or llayman@health-law.com .
About Hooper, Lundy & Bookman, PC: Founded in 1987, Hooper, Lundy & Bookman is the largest law firm in the country dedicated exclusively to the representation of health care providers and suppliers. With offices in Boston, Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C., and clients in all 50 states, we meet the business, litigation, regulatory and government relations needs of a broad array of health care providers–ranging from the largest national health care organizations to community hospitals and individual physician practices. For more information, please visit our website at www.health-law.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005226/en/
HLB
Marty Corry, 202-580-7707
Dept. Chair, Government Relations & Public Policy
mcorry@health-law.com
Source: Hooper, Lundy & Bookman, P.C.