ARLINGTON, Virginia, Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The International Fragrance Association of North America (IFRANA) has announced Lia K. Dangelico as Director, Communications, and Taiwo Koyejo, Ph.D., MBA, as Chief Regulatory Scientist. Dangelico will lead a branding and communications program that both demonstrates the power of fragrance to enhance lives and further emphasizes the organization as the trusted voice of the industry. Koyejo will oversee IFRANA’s efforts in science policy and regulatory affairs and ensure the organization’s positions are firmly grounded in sound science.
Lia K. Dangelico joined IFRANA as Director of Communications in January 2018
Taiwo Koyejo joined IFRANA as Chief Regulatory Scientist in January 2018
Lia K. Dangelico brings 10 years of experience in content development and strategy, corporate branding and messaging, and marketing and social media for a wide range of industries and sectors, including nonprofit, defense, healthcare, and technology. An established professional writer and editor, her first edited book is set to be published internationally later this year. Most recently, she oversaw marketing and communications as well as corporate culture for a leading Northern Virginia pet care company, where she also was a founding member of the Executive Leadership Team.
“I’m excited about the experience and creativity Lia brings to this important role,” said Farah Ahmed, IFRANA President and CEO. “She is passionate about our truth—that fragrance has the power, beyond all frontiers and cultures, to enhance lives.”
Taiwo Koyejo earned a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Washington University in St. Louis, and a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology from The University of Connecticut Health Center. She brings more than a decade of experience and expertise in the science and regulatory space, serving as Regulatory Affairs Manager at Monsanto and, later, as Director of Regulatory Affairs in Plant Biotechnology at CropLife International. At CropLife, she oversaw science-based regulatory advocacy with U.S. and global regulatory agencies and coordinated the efforts of member companies to advocate for science-based risk assessments for plant biotech products.
“The fragrance industry’s commitment to sound science and safety has resulted in fragrances being one of the most highly tested ingredients in the consumer product marketplace. I am confident that, under Taiwo’s direction, IFRANA will continue to ensure sound science is reflected in our advocacy with energy, enthusiasm, and integrity,” said Ahmed.
About IFRANA
The International Fragrance Association of North America (IFRANA) is the principal trade association representing the U.S. fragrance industry. The organization’s member companies create and manufacture fragrances and scents for home care, personal care, home design, fine fragrance, and industrial and institutional products. IFRANA also represents companies that supply fragrance ingredients, including natural extracts and other raw materials, that are used in perfumery and fragrance mixtures. Learn more about IFRANA at www.ifrana.org .
###
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/63de8c3e-8639-4d76-b6ed-722954de179b
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/9ced62c2-6b15-41de-a43c-200e71527acb
Lia Dangelico International Fragrance Association of North America (IFRANA) 571-317-1504 ldangelico@ifrana.org
Source:International Fragrance Association of North America