FREEHOLD, N.J., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Davison, Eastman, Muñoz, Lederman & Paone, P.A. (DEMLP) announces the addition of Douglas J. Widman, as partner. Widman will be working in the Tax & Estate Planning and Business Litigation departments with a focus on mediation. He currently serves as an Arbitrator and Rule 1:40 Qualified Mediator for the N.J. Superior Court and the N.J. Federal District Courts. He is also a Collaborative Law Mediator.
"We are very pleased to have Doug join our firm. He is a seasoned litigator and mediator with a strong reputation in the legal community. He is known for his business acumen and his breadth of experience will be an asset for our clients," said James A. Paone, II, managing shareholder at DEMLP.
Widman joins DEMLP from Widman, Cooney, Wilson, McGann & Fitterer where he was Managing Partner. There, he advised on estate planning, litigated professional and fiduciary liability issues, employment/discrimination and general liability matters. He was also corporate counsel to non-profit health, social services and educational institutions.
Widman graduated cum laude from Syracuse University's College of Arts & Sciences (The Maxwell School), and received his Doctor of Jurisprudence from Syracuse University College of Law in 1973, where he was Editor of the International Law Review. Following his clerkship with New Jersey State Superior Court Judge Thomas L. Yaccarino (Monmouth County), he became Deputy Attorney General of New Jersey with the Division of Criminal Justice, representing the State in criminal and civil actions brought by State agencies involving organized crime, political corruption and drug diversions.
Widman has been a member of the New Jersey Bar since 1973. He is admitted to practice in the Federal Courts, New York, and the U.S. Supreme Court. He is a member of the American, New Jersey and Monmouth County Bar Associations, New Jersey Association of Professional Mediators and Defense Research Institute.
About DEMLP
Founded in 1988, Davison, Eastman, Muñoz, Lederman & Paone, P.A. represents clients in corporate litigation as well as in civil and criminal cases, business and employment law, trusts and estates, municipal, community associations, real estate and land use and DWI defense.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/davison-eastman-munoz-lederman--paone-adds-partner-douglas-j-widman-300579102.html
SOURCE Davison, Eastman, Munoz, Lederman & Paone, P.A.