FORT MILL, S.C., Movement Mortgage, a top 10 national purchase mortgage lender, has hired former KPMG executive Stephen Polacek as its chief credit officer.
Polacek joins Movement to lead the financial services firm's credit risk management strategy and operations. Polacek has three decades of experience in credit, risk management, regulatory compliance and mortgage finance over a broad career in financial services. Most recently, Polacek served as Director, Financial Risk Management Advisory, at global advisory firm KPMG. He has also held management roles at Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and Fannie Mae.
In his role as chief credit officer, Polacek will have responsibility for Movement's credit quality, credit culture, credit risk management and overall credit processes. He will report to Chief Financial Officer Laura Bowles and be based at the company's National Sales Support Center headquarters in Fort Mill, South Carolina.
"Steve is a talented leader who will bring extensive experience and a deep knowledge of credit risk and regulatory compliance to our team," says Movement Chief Financial Officer Laura Bowles. "We look forward to building on our commitment to excellent credit management with his expertise."
Polacek holds a finance degree from Virginia Polytechnic & State University and a masters degree in business administration from Georgia State University. He is a Certified Mortgage Banker (CMB), Accredited Mortgage Professional (AMP) and a Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE).
About Movement Mortgage
Movement Mortgage is one the largest purchase mortgage lenders in the U.S., with more than 4,300 employees and 750 branch offices in 49 states. Known for its innovative mortgage process and referable experience, Movement begins each loan application with Upfront Underwriting and works toward a seven-day loan processing goal. Its non-profit organization, The Movement Foundation, has reinvested more than $37 million in communities to date. For more information, visit www.movement.com
Contact:
Adam O'Daniel
Communications Director
(704) 562-2117
adam.odaniel@movement.com
 with multimedia: releases/movement-mortgage-hires-stephen-polacek-as-chief-credit-officer-300583390.html
SOURCE Movement Mortgage