THE WOODLANDS, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sterling Construction Company, Inc. (NasdaqGS:STRL) (“Sterling” or “the Company”) today announced that Jeff A. Darnell has been appointed to the position of Vice President, Strategy & Business Development effective January 15, 2018. Mr. Darnell will oversee Sales, Marketing, and Strategy efforts for Sterling Construction across all six subsidiaries, with an emphasis on enhancing the Company’s airport strategy, and will report to Joe Cutillo, Sterling Construction’s Chief Executive Officer.
“Jeff is an excellent addition to our senior leadership team,” commented Joe Cutillo. “We plan to leverage Jeff’s deep expertise in driving bottom-line growth for construction companies through adjacent market expansion, which aligns well with our strategy to further develop several high value segments, including Airports, Railways, Ports and Residential. On behalf of our Board, I would like to welcome Jeff to the Sterling family.”
About Jeff Darnell
Mr. Darnell served as a Corporate Director from 2011 to December 2017 at Hensel Phelps, where he was responsible for all sales and marketing efforts, and growth strategies for one of the largest development, construction and facility management organizations in North America. Prior to joining Hensel Phelps, he held various positions at Johnson Controls from 1999 to 2011. He was most recently the Regional Major Project Sales Manager, where he was responsible for the Major Projects construction business unit focused on multi-million dollar complex facility and IT installations across technology dense environments such as healthcare, data centers, life sciences and hospitality. Mr. Darnell holds a Bachelor of Science, Mechanical Engineering degree from the University of Wyoming.
Sterling is a leading heavy civil construction company that specializes in the building and reconstruction of transportation infrastructure, water infrastructure, and residential and commercial concrete projects in Texas, Utah, Nevada, Colorado, Arizona, California, Hawaii and other states in which there are construction opportunities. Its heavy civil construction projects include highways, roads, bridges, airfields, ports, light rail, water, wastewater and storm drainage systems and multi-family homes, commercial projects and parking structures. Its residential concrete projects include concrete foundations for single-family homes.
This press release includes certain statements that fall within the definition of “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including overall economic and market conditions, federal, state and local government funding, competitors’ and customers’ actions, and weather conditions, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, including those risks identified in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, such statements should be considered in light of these risks. Any prediction by the Company is only a statement of management’s belief at the time the prediction is made. There can be no assurance that any prediction once made will continue thereafter to reflect management’s belief, and the Company does not undertake to update publicly its predictions or to make voluntary additional disclosures of nonpublic information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005261/en/
Sterling Construction Company, Inc.
Jennifer Maxwell, 281-951-3560
Director of Investor Relations
or
Investor Relations Counsel:
The Equity Group Inc.
Fred Buonocore, CFA, 212-836-9607
Kevin Towle, 212-836-9620
Source: Sterling Construction Company, Inc.