Industry veteran ran Rivers’ sister property in Des Plaines—Illinois’ top performing casino
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Rush Street Gaming announced today that Bill Keena, formerly general manager of Rivers Casino in Des Plaines, Illinois, has joined Rivers Casino in Pittsburgh as general manager. Keena and Rush Street opened Rivers Casino in Des Plaines in July 2011. The Chicago-area venue quickly became Illinois’ top-performing casino and has been ever since.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006428/en/
Bill Keena is named general manager of Pittsburgh’s Rivers Casino. (Photo: Business Wire)
A 30-year casino veteran, Keena began his gaming career in 1988, after graduating from the University of Las Vegas. He joined Harrah’s finance department, where his responsibilities grew to include casino and hotel oversight as general manager of Harrah’s Laughlin, Nevada, and Harrah’s St. Louis, Missouri. Thereafter, he was promoted to regional president for Harrah’s, simultaneously overseeing four full-service casinos and resorts, two in Missouri and two in Iowa.
Rivers Pittsburgh marks Keena’s return to the Rush Street family. He rejoins the company effective immediately, pending approval from the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board.
“We are thrilled to have Bill back and running one of our properties,” said Greg Carlin, CEO of Rush Street Gaming. “He is an exceptional leader, focused on providing the best customer experience, working closely with the community and fostering our Team Member culture.”
Keena succeeds Craig Clark, who recently left Rivers Casino in Pittsburgh. “We thank Craig for his many years of service and wish him the best,” said Carlin.
Rivers Casino opened on Pittsburgh’s North Shore in August of 2009. It features more than 2,900 slots, 92 tables games, a 30-table poker room, nine distinctive restaurants and bars, a riverside amphitheater and a multi-purpose event center. Rivers employs approximately 1,700 Team Members and has been named “Best Overall Gaming Resort in Pennsylvania” for eight consecutive years by Casino Player magazine.
About Rush Street Gaming
Founded by Neil Bluhm and Greg Carlin, Rush Street Gaming and its affiliates have developed and operate successful casinos in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Des Plaines, IL (Chicago area) and Schenectady, NY. By placing an emphasis on superior design and outstanding customer service, Rush Street Gaming has become one of the leading casino developers in the United States. Rush Street’s casinos employ approximately 9,000 Team Members and generate more than $1 billion in annual gaming revenues. For more information, visit www.rushstreetgaming.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006428/en/
For Rush Street Gaming
Jack Horner, 267-932-8760, ext. 302
412-600-2295 (cell)
jack@hornercom.com
Source: Rivers Casino