COLUMBUS, Ohio, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Oneida Group, one of the world’s leading marketers of dining and food preparation products, today announced the appointment of Lisa C. Gallagher and Nora L. Zorich to the company’s Board of Directors. These appointments are effective immediately.
“As we continue to pave the way for innovation and ground-breaking transformation in the foodservice and food preparation industries, both Ms. Gallagher and Dr. Zorich bring impressive careers and distinctive experience to The Oneida Group which make them uniquely qualified to support the Company’s mission” said Patrick Lockwood-Taylor, Chief Executive Officer.
Lisa C. Gallagher is currently the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Hawtan Leathers, LLC, an international manufacturer and distributor of fine leather. Additionally, she is the Chief Financial Officer of Port City Glove, S.A., an international manufacturer of industrial and safety gloves. Prior to this she was the Chief Financial Officer of Fusion Media Group, an outdoor advertising company. Lisa has extensive background experience in executive operations and financial management and also brings more than 20 years of knowledge in corporate finance, including more than 15 years as an Independent Financial and Strategic Advisor with Remy Capital Partners as well as experience with Robertson Stephens where she was Managing Director and Group Head of the Media and Communications Group. She is a graduate of Mount Holyoke College and holds an MBA from Simmons Graduate School of Management. Her previous board experience includes DG Systems, Inc., FastChannel Network, Inc., Marlin Broadcasting, SmartRoutes and Bridge Over Troubled Waters.
Nora L. Zorich M.D., Ph.D, is a licensed physician and President of NLZ Consulting, LLC, specializing in pharmaceutical, OTC drugs and dietary supplement consulting. Nora retired from Procter & Gamble Company, a multinational manufacturer of consumer products, in 2012, after more than 20 years in Research and Development. Her scientific capability spans several areas, including regulatory affairs, statistics, global post-market surveillance and biotechnology. She received her M.D. and Ph.D. from the University of Illinois. Nora is the current Chair of the ARBONNE Scientific Advisory Board. Her previous board experience includes the United Way National Women’s Leadership Council, the Health Improvement Collaborative of Greater Cincinnati, the YWCA of Greater Cincinnati, and Planned Parenthood of Southwest Ohio.
Chairman of the Board David Weinstein adds, “These appointments provide the Company with world-class talent who will bring broad experience and deeper insights that will help us to reach our business goals. We welcome Dr. Zorich’s proficiency in research and development as well as her vast scientific acumen. Ms. Gallagher’s unique combination of experience in both manufacturing and capital markets will help us advance further and more quickly in meeting our strategic priorities. We are honored to have them join our Board.”
About The Oneida Group
Driven by devotion to design, The Oneida Group (formerly EveryWare Global) is recognized for providing quality tabletop and kitchen solutions through its consumer, foodservice, and specialty channels. The company’s global platform allows it to market and distribute internationally its total portfolio of products including bakeware, beverageware, serveware, storageware, flatware, dinnerware, crystal, buffetware and hollowware; premium spirit bottles; cookware; gadgets; candle and floral glass containers; and other kitchen products, all under a broad collection of widely-recognized brands, including Oneida, Anchor Hocking, Sant’ Andrea, Buffalo, Delco, Fire-King, Stölzle, and Durobor. Anchor Hocking, LLC and Oneida Ltd. are subsidiaries of The Oneida Group. Additional information can be found at www.theoneidagroup.com , www.anchorhocking.com , www.anchorhockingbottles.com , www.oneida.com , and www.foodservice.oneida.com .
For further information, contact:
Erika Schoenberger
General Counsel
The Oneida Group Inc.
740-681-6417
erika.schoenberger@theoneidagroup.com
Source:The Oneida Group