WALTHAM, Mass., Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, a leading residential real estate brokerage company in New England, announced today that it has acquired the assets of Edna Kranz Realty, Inc. Operating from one office in Newton Centre, Mass, the company has served residential real estate customers and clients in Newton and Chestnut Hill for more than 20 years. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage is part of NRT LLC, the nation's largest residential real estate brokerage company.
With this acquisition:
Former broker-owner Roz Wennett will retire from the company. The approximately 19 real estate agents, formerly affiliated with the acquired company, are welcomed in the Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage office located at 1261 Centre Street in Newton.
Quote: S:
"This acquisition strengthens Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage's foothold in Newton and Brookline. Additionally, the agents are widely respected in this marketplace making them a much welcome addition."
- Merit McIntyre, president of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage in New England
"Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage is known for its state-of-the-art technology and the incredible resources available to agents, such as its global network and exceptional educational opportunities. This relationship will ensure that our agents will receive all the tools they need to excel now and into the future."
- Roz Wennett, former broker-owner Edna Kranz Realty, Inc.
About Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage is the largest residential real estate brokerage company in New England. With more than 4,000 affiliated agents in approximately 95 office locations, the organization serves consumers in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Maine. Real estate agents affiliated with Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage are independent contractor agents and are not employees of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage is part of NRT LLC, the nation's largest residential real estate brokerage company. For more information, visit ColdwellBankerHomes.com .
Media Contact:
Matt Eckess
781.684.5461
Matt.Eckess@NRTNortheast.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/coldwell-banker-residential-brokerage-expands-presence-in-massachusetts-with-acquisition-300584801.html
SOURCE Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage