OAK BROOK, Ill., Jan. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- TreeHouse Foods, Inc. (NYSE: THS) will host a live audio Webcast of its fourth quarter earnings results conference call on Thursday, February 15, 2018 at 9:00 a.m. EDT. Management will discuss the results for the fourth quarter and its outlook for 2018. An earnings release will be issued before the market opens on the same date. The Webcast will be accessible by visiting http://www.treehousefoods.com and by clicking on "Investor Relations," "Investor Overview."
In order to listen to the Webcast, users will need to have installed either Real Player or Windows Media Player software, which can be detected and downloaded by visiting the site. A Webcast replay will be available for one year following the event within the "Investor Relations," "Earnings Call Archives" section of the Company's website.
ABOUT TREEHOUSE FOODS
TreeHouse Foods, Inc. is a manufacturer of packaged foods and beverages with a network of manufacturing facilities across the United States, Canada, and Italy that focuses primarily on private label products for both retail grocery and food away from home customers. We manufacture shelf stable, refrigerated, frozen and fresh products, including beverages (single serve beverages, coffees, teas, creamers, powdered beverages, and smoothies); meals (cereal, pasta, macaroni and cheese, and side dishes); baked goods (refrigerated and frozen dough, cookies, and crackers); condiments (pourable and spoonable dressing, dips, pickles, and sauces) and snacks (nuts, trail mix, bars, dried fruits, and vegetables). We have a comprehensive offering of packaging formats and flavor profiles, and we also offer natural, organic, and preservative free ingredients in many categories. Our strategy is to be the leading supplier of private label food and beverage products by providing the best balance of quality and cost to our customers.
Additional information, including TreeHouse's most recent statements on Forms 10-Q and 10-K, may be found at TreeHouse Foods' website, http://www.treehousefoods.com .
RELATED LINKS
http://www.treehousefoods.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/treehouse-foods-announces-webcast-of-fourth-quarter-2017-earnings-conference-call-300577765.html
SOURCE TreeHouse Foods, Inc.