WORTHINGTON, Ohio, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Central Federal Corporation (CFBK) (the "Company") and its wholly-owned banking subsidiary, CFBank, N.A. ("CFBank") are pleased to announce that John Fearon has joined CFBank as President of its Mortgage Lending Business unit.
John is an accomplished mortgage executive that brings to CFBank a proven track record of growing and building mortgage lending businesses. He founded Fearon Financial, LLC/Smarter Mortgages in 2005 and grew it into a mortgage company generating loan volumes of up to nearly $1 billion annually before selling it in 2015.
The strategic combination of John's experience and expertise, coupled with CFBank's national bank platform, is intended to enable CFBank to significantly expand its mortgage lending volumes of saleable loans and increase related fee income.
CFBank's Leadership Team, which has substantial experience in Mortgage Lending, is excited about the opportunities for incremental earnings potential and added franchise value as a result of having a well-performing Mortgage Lending unit as part of CFBank. President and CEO, Timothy O'Dell, commented, "We are very enthused with having someone of John Fearon's caliber and track record to lead the growth and expansion of our Mortgage Lending Business."
About Central Federal Corporation and CFBank
Central Federal Corporation is the holding company for CFBank, N.A. a national bank formed in Ohio in 1892. CFBank has a presence in four major Metro Ohio markets – Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati and Akron markets – as well as its two locations in Columbiana County, Ohio. CFBank provides personalized Business Banking products and services including Commercial loans and leases, Commercial and Residential Real Estate loans and Treasury Management Depository services. Our products and services are particularly focused on serving the banking and financing needs of closely held businesses, and our business model emphasizes Personalized Service, Customer access to decision makers, quick execution, and the convenience of Online Internet banking, Mobile Banking, Remote Deposit and Corporate Treasury management.
Additional information about the Company and CFBank is available at www.CFBankOnline.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/john-fearon-joins-cfbank-300579127.html
SOURCE Central Federal Corporation