MONTEGO BAY, Jamaica, Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Half Moon , the iconic resort and 400-acre beachfront oasis in Jamaica, has announced the promotion of Laura Redpath to Director of Brand and Communications, effective immediately. In her new role, Redpath is responsible for Half Moon's branding, marketing and communications, which includes public relations, advertising and digital and social media marketing efforts locally and internationally.
Heading into the final phase of our Legacy Reborn project, we knew we had to have the right individual to develop and implement an innovative marketing and communications strategy that can take us into the next generation of Half Moon," said Sandro Fabris, General Manager at Half Moon. "Laura is a valuable asset to our team and we are enthusiastic about the continued success under her leadership."
As Director of Brand and Communications, Redpath's focus is on driving brand awareness, creating innovative content and supporting business development and revenue generation through key market activities and campaigns.
Redpath joined Half Moon in 2015 and previously held the position of Marketing Communications Manager, where she was responsible for the resort's Marketing Communications in conjunction with Revenue Management, Sales and Operations. Prior to Half Moon, Redpath worked at Sandals Resorts International where she was the Public Relations Manager during which she managed public relations activities for the company's non-profit arm, the Sandals Foundation. Previously, Redpath was a journalist at one of Jamaica's recognized national daily newspapers, The Jamaica Gleaner.
About Half Moon
Half Moon, a 400-acre resort in Jamaica, is considered one of the Caribbean's most iconic destinations. Located 10 minutes away from Montego Bay's Sangster International Airport, the 63-year-old property features two miles of private beachfront and elegantly appointed rooms and suites. The AAA Four-Diamond resort also offers 31 expansive villas (ranging up to 7 bedrooms) all with private pools and personal staff of butler, cook and housekeeper.
Half Moon offers guests a wide variety of amenities and activities, including the multi award-winning Fern Tree Spa, the largest spa in the Caribbean, a Robert Trent Jones Sr.-designed 18-hole championship golf course with academy, Spinning® classes, 11 lit tennis courts, equestrian centre, fitness centre and wellness offerings, a delightful children's village, water sports, and more. Visit www.halfmoon.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/half-moon-announces-the-promotion-of-laura-redpath-to-director-of-brand--communications-300588914.html
SOURCE Half Moon