Mr. Le will be Managing Ambry’s Global Business Expansion, Delivering Precision Medicine Solutions to Untapped Markets
ALISO VIEJO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ambry Genetics Corporation (Ambry), a leader in clinical genetic diagnostics, announced today that Linh H. Le will serve as Ambry’s new Chief Operating Officer (COO). Linh’s primary role will be to develop a scalable operational strategy as Ambry expands its reach globally, following a successful acquisition by Konica Minolta.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005707/en/
Mr. Linh Le (Photo: Business Wire)
Konica Minolta closed its acquisition of Ambry in late October, with a mission to combine the companies’ technologies into a global solution for precision medicine. Mr. Le will contribute heavily towards ensuring Ambry’s operations are well-prepared to achieve that goal.
Linh brings more than 25 years of work experience, stemming from several industry sectors including medical devices, biopharmaceutical, entertainment and management advisory services. Mr. Le spent the last 14 years in the healthcare industry overseeing financial operations at Medtronic’s Diabetes Intensive Insulin Business Unit. Prior to that, Linh held leadership roles at the Walt Disney Company, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Twentieth Century Fox and KPMG.
“As we grow our reach globally, we are confident that Linh’s international experience will be instrumental in designing a strategic expansion into new markets,” says Ambry CEO Dr. Aaron Elliott. “Linh’s vision and experience will provide the strong foundation we need.”
In his role as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Le will provide leadership, management and guidance to the senior leadership team on all matters relating to the financial strategy and operations of the organization.
“We are pleased to have Mr. Le join the team, bringing with him his vision and operational expertise,” said Kiyotaka Fujii, President of Global Healthcare, Konica Minolta. “By overseeing the revenue cycle from beginning to end, Linh will help Ambry become a strong leader in precision medicine development while remaining financially successful.”
“This is an exciting time to join Ambry,” says Mr. Le. “I am humbled by the opportunity to work with an organization with admirable core values and a solid mission statement. Following in the footsteps of Konica Minolta, our aim is to achieve operational excellence on a global scale. Together, we will revolutionize healthcare in a meaningful way by improving the quality of life for our patients through precision medicine.”
About Ambry
Ambry Genetics is both College of American Pathologists (CAP)-accredited and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified. Ambry is an established leader in clinical genetic diagnostics and software solutions, combining both to offer the most comprehensive testing menu in the industry. Ambry has established a reputation for sharing data while safeguarding patient privacy, unparalleled service, and responsibly applying new technologies to the clinical molecular diagnostics market. For more information about Ambry Genetics, visit ambrygen.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005707/en/
Ambry Genetics
Aaron Schmidt, Sr. Manager, Communications
949.457.4679
aschmidt@ambrygen.com
Source: Ambry Genetics Corporation