CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- TriNetX today announced that Weill Cornell Medicine has joined the TriNetX global health research network. Weill Cornell Medicine is one of the nation's most comprehensive, integrated academic healthcare delivery systems, and is making its total patient population of over two million available for query through TriNetX's federated network.
TriNetX is a network comprised of healthcare organizations representing nearly 100 million patients globally, biopharmaceutical companies, and contract research organizations (CROs). Weill Cornell Medicine joins other network members who are working together to improve protocol design, site selection, participant identification for clinical trial recruitment, and collaborative research across a range of therapeutic areas and development stages.
"Weill Cornell Medicine is working toward a new frontier to discover optimal approaches to support clinical research with electronic patient data," said Thomas Campion, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Healthcare Policy and Research and Director of Research Informatics at Weill Cornell Medicine.
"We hypothesize that TriNetX will help bring new clinical trial opportunities to benefit our patients," said John Leonard, M.D., Professor of Medicine and Associate Dean for Clinical Research at Weill Cornell Medicine.
Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to eradicating disease and enhancing human health through cutting edge, translational science. The institution's pioneering centers and institutes lead cross-disciplinary biomedical research efforts to improve patient care. They have 382 of America's Top Doctors in 57 medical specialties and their Joint Clinical Trials Office currently supports more than 1,000 clinical trials each year.
De-identified data supplied by Weill Cornell Medicine, including patient demographics, diagnoses, procedures, labs, and medications, is available to query on the TriNetX network. One of the reasons Weill Cornell Medicine decided to join the network is because of TriNetX's ability to extend their existing i2b2 (Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside) infrastructure to collaborators outside their institution.
"We look forward to the opportunity to engage other healthcare organizations via TriNetX in order to bring additional innovative research to our institution and connect our leading experts with others at centers around the country," said Curtis Cole, M.D., Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine and Chief Information Officer at Weill Cornell Medicine.
Network members utilize TriNetX's cloud-based, health research platform to analyze patient populations and perform "what-if" analyses in real-time. As members, healthcare organizations receive hardware and software that are configured within the organization's IT infrastructure and often builds on existing data resources such as i2b2 and Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP). Researchers then have access to the institution's de-identified patient data through a user-friendly interface and a growing number of visualization and analysis capabilities. Biopharmaceutical companies and CROs are presented with aggregate views, but each data point in the TriNetX network can be traced to healthcare organizations who have the ability to identify individual patients, allowing clinical researchers to develop virtual patient cohorts that can then be re-identified for potential recruitment into a clinical trial.
"We are excited about the addition of Weill Cornell Medicine to our network," said Gadi Lachman, CEO at TriNetX. "They are committed to cutting-edge research that connects patients to the latest treatment and prevention strategies. We are confident we can support them in that mission."
About TriNetX
TriNetX is the global health research network enabling healthcare organizations, biopharmaceutical companies and contract research organizations (CROs) to collaborate, improve research, enhance trial design, accelerate recruitment and bring new therapies to market faster. Each member of our community shares in the consolidated value of our global, federated health research network that connects clinical researchers in real-time to the patient populations which they are attempting to study. For more information, visit TriNetX at http://www.trinetx.com or follow @TriNetX on Twitter.
Media Contacts
Julia Weber
Racepoint Global
(617) 624-3234
trinetx@racepointglobal.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/weill-cornell-medicine-joins-trinetx-health-research-network-to-expand-breadth-of-clinical-research-300589482.html
SOURCE TriNetX