MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. and FLORENCE, S.C., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: SBGI) announced that William Ballard has been named General Manager for WPDE (ABC) in Myrtle Beach/Florence, South Carolina. Mr. Ballard will also be responsible for the oversight of Sinclair's provision of services to WWMB (CW). The announcement was made by Steve Marks, EVP & Chief Operating Officer of Sinclair's television group.
In making the announcement, Mr. Marks said, "We welcome Bill to Sinclair and expect that he will be an effective leader for the Myrtle Beach/Florence stations. Having served in a variety of management and sales roles throughout the television industry over the course of his career, Bill is well prepared to work with the teams at WPDE and WWMB to make an impact on the community, our viewers, advertisers and the stations."
"I am thrilled to be joining Sinclair, the industry's most forward-looking media company," commented Mr. Ballard. "WPDE and WWMB are terrific television stations that exemplify broadcasting excellence, and I am excited to join this winning team."
Mr. Ballard has over 27 years' experience in television broadcast, and most recently as a founder/owner of a start-up company. Prior to that, he served as President and General Manager at WIAT-TV (CBS) in Birmingham, AL and has been a General Manager at various other television stations since 1994, including Miami, Philadelphia, and Raleigh, as well as a broadcasting consultant. Prior to that, he held various sales roles since 1986. Mr. Ballard studied political science at Western Illinois University and graduate studies in international relations.
Sinclair is one of the largest and most diversified television broadcasting companies in the country. Pro forma for the Tribune acquisition (before any related divestitures), the Company will own, operate and/or provide services to 233 television stations in 108 markets. The Company has multiple emerging networks as well as stations affiliated with all the major networks. Sinclair is a leading local news provider in the country and a producer of live sports content. Sinclair's content is delivered via multiple-platforms, including over-the-air, multi-channel video program distributors, and digital platforms. The Company regularly uses its website as a key source of Company information which can be accessed at www.sbgi.net .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sinclair-names-william-ballard-general-manager-in-myrtle-beachflorence-sc-300590456.html
SOURCE Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.