SANTA MONICA, Calif., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Mobolize has announced the appointment of Ira Stern as Senior Director of Solutions Engineering to strengthen the company's expertise in working with mobile providers. Stern will help Mobile Network Operators (MNOs), Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs), Application (App) Developers and other service providers leverage Mobolize products to increase revenue and lower costs, while retaining and attracting customers.
Mobile providers can use the variety of Mobolize software products to develop differentiating, marketable products and services, and Stern and his team will help them understand potential combinations that create unique opportunities, along with the advantages of using Mobolize's device-based software.
Responsibilities include customer needs and requirement evaluation for proposed Mobolize solutions, and technical expertise for the company's sales, account management and client support teams.
"Mobolize products uniquely reside on the mobile device, and Ira will work with customers marketing and engineering teams to fully communicate the capabilities and opportunities of using Mobolize products," said Colleen LeCount, Mobolize Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing. "These are opportunities that can help mobile operators regain and maintain their competitive edge in this rapidly changing and growing industry."
Stern has more than 20 years of experience in the telecommunications industry, including 18 at Sprint where he held a variety of positions in Solutions Engineering. As Director of Solution Engineering at Sprint, Ira's teams were responsible for front line technical expertise and customer guidance regarding wireline and wireless technologies, hardware, software, Machine to Machine and IOT solutions.
Stern also worked at Nielsen within their Tech/Telecom team consulting with National Carriers, using data collected around network performance, user experience and behavior.
About Mobolize
Mobolize's on-device software enables telecommunications operators to develop products that help them stay empowered in the mobile device-driven world. Mobile Network Operators (MNOs), Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs) and third-party developers use Mobolize's products to enhance customer experience and increase revenue. Mobolize solutions are deployed on millions of Android and iOS smartphones around the world, including a Tier 1 U.S. operator. To learn more, go to www.mobolize.com .
Contact:
Danielle Prager
8582566344
188884@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mobolize-strengthens-solutions-engineering-with-the-appointment-of-ira-stern-300583849.html
SOURCE Mobolize