THE REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO and DES MOINES, Iowa, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Garmon Chemicals, an international provider of chemical auxiliaries, innovation and creativity for garment processing, today announced an exciting new chapter in its 30-year history.
Kemin Industries, a global ingredient company that uses science to touch 3.8 billion people every day with its products and services, has entered into an agreement to acquire the textile auxiliary business of Garmon Chemicals and its sister company, The Italian Job. The companies will be gradually integrated over the next few months. All apparel and textile customers will continue to be served exclusively by the Garmon brand, with the values and benefits that they have come to expect and to respect over the years.
The acquisition will further increase the Garmon brand's R&D scope, commercial penetration and service level throughout the textile auxiliary global markets. The acquisition is expected to result in greater efficiencies and significant increase of market share. The company's global headquarters will remain in The Republic of San Marino.
"Kemin first became interested in entering the textile auxiliaries industry based on the adjacent technologies the industry has in common with existing Kemin research and products," said Dr. Chris Nelson, President and CEO of Kemin Industries. "Garmon's global reach, commitment to customer-driven R&D and unique marketing strategy cemented the decision for the acquisition to allow Kemin to enter the market."
With this acquisition, Kemin is able to play a significant role in additional textile markets. Kemin will continue to provide quality products and services to over half of the world's population every day, and will enter the textile industry with the new Garmon acquisition.
"The fusion of Garmon's undisputed know-how and market reputation along with the R&D power of Kemin and its global footprint is a new industry zeitgeist that provides customers throughout the apparel value chain with unprecedented innovation, solutions and business intimacy," said Maurizio Cappellini, President of Garmon Chemicals. "Garmon and Kemin joining forces is a notable sign of the global collaboration trend that creates a positive impact when two companies join together and create success with a concentration of resources."
About Garmon Chemicals
Garmon Chemicals ( www.garmonchemicals.com ) is a leader in the R&D and marketing of total chemical solutions, innovation and creativity for the denim and apparel industry. The company is internationally recognized as symbol of pioneering evolution in the name of a better tomorrow.
Since its birth in 1982, Garmon Chemicals established itself at the very center of a narrative that talks to manufacturers, apparel brands and retailers about innovative chemical auxiliaries and solutions. For over 30 years, Garmon Chemicals has been an R&D and marketing platform for fashion innovation and a reference for product quality and responsible practices.
With manufacturing facilities in San Marino, Brazil, China, India and Turkey the company operates in more than 30 countries through a commercial network of subsidiaries and agents. This global footprint ensures technical assistance in strategic textile areas around the world, as well as capillary distribution of both chemical products and related know-how.
About Kemin Industries
Kemin ( www.kemin.com ) has been dedicated to using applied science to improve the quality of life for over half a century. As a global company touching 3.8 billion people every day with its products, Kemin is committed to improving the quality, safety and efficacy of food, feed and health-related products to feed a growing population and be a resource for others in need.
Committed to feed and food safety, Kemin maintains top-of-the-line manufacturing facilities where over 500 specialty ingredients are made for humans and animals in the global feed and food industries, as well as the health, nutrition and beauty markets. The company provides product solutions and options to customers in more than 120 countries.
A privately held, family-owned and operated company, Kemin has more than 2,500 global employees and operates in 90 countries including manufacturing facilities in Belgium, Brazil, China, India, Italy, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and the United States.
Media Contacts:
Garmon Chemicals: Margherita Verlicchi, rita.sechi@menabo.com , +39 0543 798463
Kemin Industries: Lauren M.G. Burt, Worldwide Communications Manager, Lauren.burt@kemin.com , (+1 515-559-5589)
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kemin-industries-acquires-garmon-chemicals-textile-auxiliaries-business-to-better-serve-global-apparel-and-textile-markets-300578399.html
SOURCE Kemin Industries