SALT LAKE CITY, Predictive Technology Group, Inc. (OTC PINK:PRED), announces the appointment of Michael Dey, Ph.D. to the Board of Directors of Predictive Technology Group, Inc. Dr. Dey will assist in corporate governance and guide the development and commercialization of technology and products in all PRED subsidiaries.
Predictive Technology Group, Inc. (OTC PINK: PRED), announces the appointment of Michael Dey, Ph.D. to the Board of Directors of Predictive Technology Group, Inc. Dr. Dey will assist in corporate governance and guide the development and commercialization of technology and products in all PRED subsidiaries, www.predictivetechnologygroup.com .
In addition to serving as a PRED Board Member, Dr. Dey will continue as Chief Executive Officer of Predicitive Therapeutics, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of PRED. Before joining PRED, Dr. Dey had executive positions at Wyeth, later acquired by Pfizer , where he was both the President and the President of Scientific Affairs division for Wyeth’s Women’s Health Care business. As President of Wyeth’s Women’s Health Care business for seven years, Dr. Dey managed its global resources of more than $3 billion annually.
“We are very pleased to have Mike join PRED’s Board of Directors,” said Bradley Robinson, CEO of PRED. “Mike’s breadth of knowledge and experience in life sciences will greatly assist in advancing science and technology and bringing related diagnostics and therapeutics to the clinic to improve the care and outcomes of patients.”
Before his leadership role in women's health care, Dr. Dey served as Vice President, General Manager of ESI Pharma, Inc. In 1995, with Wyeth’s acquisition of American Cyanamid and Lederle Standard Products, Dr. Dey became President of ESI Lederle, Inc. As President of ESI Lederle, Dr. Dey’s responsibilities included directing one of the largest generic companies in the U.S. with more than $500 million in sales, approximately 150 people in R&D and 100 people in marketing and sales. ESI Lederle sold both oral and injectable products that included Tubex®, the prefilled syringe delivery system.
Dr. Dey received an undergraduate degree in Biology/Chemistry in 1973, a Master’s Degree in 1980 in Pharmacology and Toxicology and a Ph.D. in 1984 in Pharmacology and Toxicology.
Predictive Therapeutics plans to launch several new molecular diagnostic tests focused on women’s health, and a therapeutic drug for the treatment of endometriosis. Dr. Dey’s appointment will assist PRED to reach these commercial milestones effectively.
About Predictive Technology Group, Inc.
Predictive Technology Group, Inc . (OTCPINK:PRED), a Salt Lake City, UT, based Life-Sciences Holding company formed in 2013, aims to revolutionize patient care through predictive data analytics, novel gene-based diagnostics, and companion therapeutics through its wholly owned subsidiaries Predictive Therapeutics and Predictive Biotech. Its subsidiary companies currently focus on four main categories: Endometriosis, Scoliosis, Degenerative Disc Disease and Regenerative Tissue Products. PRED is exploring possibilities for additional disease identification and treatment categories in its integrated, registered laboratories. PRED subsidiaries use genetic and other information as cornerstones in the development of new diagnostics that assess a person’s risk of illness and therapeutic products designed to identify, prevent and treat diseases more effectively, www.predictivetechnologygroup.com , www.predrx.com , and www.predbiotech.com .
For more information about Predictive Technology Group, Inc. and the release, contact Rich Kaiser, Investor Relations, YES INTERNATIONAL, 757-306-6090, and yes@yesinternational.com .
Forward-Looking Statements- To the extent any statements made in this release contain information that is not historical, these statements are essentially forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, acceptance and demand for new vaccines and other pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, new product development and launch, reliance on key strategic alliances, availability of raw materials, availability of additional intellectual property rights, availability of future financing sources, the regulatory environment, and other risks the Company may identify from time to time in the future.
Contact
Rich Kaiser
YES INTERNATIONAL
757-306-6090
yes@yesinternational.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/1985fb2b-4ffc-4c83-b47d-21159f4cee82
Source:PREDICTIVE TECHNOLOGY GROUP, INC.