MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Veritas Technologies today announced the appointment of Jonathan Alboum as chief technology officer, Public Sector to help government organizations manage, protect and extract new business value from data on-premises and across complex, multi-cloud environments.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005312/en/
Veritas announced the appointment of Jonathan Alboum as chief technology officer, Public Sector to help government organizations manage, protect and extract new business value from data on-premises and across complex, multi-cloud environments. (Photo: Business Wire)
Alboum is a seasoned IT leader with experience in the private and public sectors, having served in executive roles in the federal government for more than a decade. His tenure includes serving as the chief information officer (CIO) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), where he led the development of the USDA’s IT modernization strategy that focused on cloud computing, network modernization and enhanced information security protections for a $3 billion annual technology spend.
Most recently, he led acquisitions and purchasing for the USDA, managing the oversight, assessment, and strategic planning of national programs comprising more than 70,000 awards worth $6 billion annually.
“The government sector, like most enterprises, is undergoing a huge digital transformation,” said Tom Kennedy, vice president of Public Sector, Veritas. “Having the proper tools in place for data protection, global visibility and centralized multi-cloud data management is especially crucial when considering the highly critical information government systems store and process daily. Veritas is committed to supporting these initiatives, and I am excited to have Jonathan leading the development of our technological innovations for the public sector.”
About Veritas Technologies
Veritas Technologies empowers organizations of all sizes to discover the truth in information—their most important digital asset. Using the Veritas platform, customers can accelerate their digital transformation and solve pressing IT and business challenges, including multi-cloud data management, data protection, storage optimization, compliance readiness and workload portability—with no cloud vendor lock-in. Eighty-six percent of Fortune 500 companies rely on Veritas today to reveal data insights that drive competitive advantage. Learn more at www.veritas.com or follow us on Twitter at @veritastechllc.
Veritas, the Veritas Logo, NetBackup, Backup Exec and Enterprise Vault are trademarks or registered trademarks of Veritas Technologies LLC or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005312/en/
Veritas Technologies
Dayna Fried, +1 925-493-9020
dayna.fried@veritas.com
Source: Veritas Technologies