BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Capstone Headwaters, a leading investment banking firm, has expanded its Financial Advisory Services (FAS) Group with the addition of Managing Director Edward Schatz. He is based in Boston and will assist clients in navigating through operating and financial challenges by providing a variety of corporate restructuring, transaction advisory, and specialty M&A services.
Mr. Schatz joins the firm from The O’Connor Group, Inc., where he was a Managing Director focused on providing strategic and managerial guidance to public and private companies. Prior to The O’Connor Group, Ed worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PWC”) and Deloitte & Touche. With over 20 years of transaction advisory experience, and industry expertise in retail, manufacturing, healthcare, high-tech, distribution, and transportation, Ed has been instrumental in the turnaround and restructuring of a wide range of middle market companies with revenue ranging from $30 million to $300 million. In addition to turnarounds and restructurings, he has significant experience in the area of out of court wind downs, liquidations, bankruptcies, and divestitures of distressed businesses as well as buy and sell-side advisory services.
“Ed brings diverse experience that fits perfectly with our growth strategy plans for our group,” said Brian Davies, Head of Capstone Headwaters FAS group. “His depth of turnaround and restructuring expertise will be an immense benefit to our clients and greatly impact the growth of our firm.”
Mr. Schatz earned his BS in Accounting from Roger Williams University with honors. He is a Certified Insolvency and Restructuring Advisor (CIRA) and maintains his Certified Public Accounting (CPA) certification.
Capstone Headwaters’ award-winning FAS Group helps middle market companies navigate difficult operating and financial environments. The team is comprised of senior executives with experience to deploy senior leadership, stabilization and value for clients rapidly. The FAS approach is one of partnership: we team with the relevant stakeholders, develop a plan for stabilizing, maximizing and realizing value, implement action and help manage results.
About Capstone Headwaters
Capstone Headwaters is an elite investment banking firm dedicated to serving the corporate finance needs of middle market business owners, investors and creditors. Capstone Headwaters provides merger & acquisition, private placement, corporate restructuring and financial advisory services across 16 industry verticals to meet the lifecycle needs of emerging enterprises. Headquartered in Boston, MA and Denver, CO, Capstone Headwaters has 20 offices in the US, UK and Brazil with a global reach that includes over 300 professionals in 34 countries. For more information, visit www.capstoneheadwaters.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005946/en/
Capstone Headwaters
Jenna Luvin, 303-531-4610
Director of Marketing
jluvin@capstoneheadwaters.com
Source: Capstone Headwaters