PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Norwest Venture Partners today announced it has sold PCA SKIN® to Colgate-Palmolive Company (NYSE:CL). PCA SKIN is a leader in medical-grade in-office and take-home skin care products, with professionally dispensed products and treatments available in more than 13,000 medical and aesthetic practices globally.
Norwest’s Sonya Brown led the strategic investment in PCA SKIN and served as a board member. “PCA SKIN has become one of the fastest growing skin health brands in the physician dispensed and aesthetician markets,” said Sonya Brown, General Partner, Norwest. “PCA SKIN has not only created a line of innovative, scientifically-driven, and efficacious products and treatments, but it has formed clinical and professional partnerships to offer unparalleled service and globally recognized training and education programs. We’re honored to have worked with such an experienced team and know PCA SKIN is positioned for continued success with Colgate.”
Brown and Rob Arditi, partner at Norwest, worked closely with PCA SKIN for the past five years to help the company pursue significant growth opportunities. During this time, PCA SKIN achieved remarkable growth underpinned by an exceptional employee culture, brand strength, and industry leading products.
This acquisition enables Colgate-Palmolive to expand its portfolio of personal care products through the addition of PCA SKIN’s highly effective professional skin treatments and daily care products.
Michael Larrain, Chief Executive Officer of PCA SKIN will remain as the CEO of PCA SKIN. “PCA Skin has been a leader and pioneer in skincare for years, and is the fastest growing brand within the professional space. Our commitment to improving people’s lives aligns seamlessly with Colgate-Palmolive’s core value of caring,” said Larrain. “We couldn’t be more excited about this new chapter and opportunity for the brand and our customers.”
Financo and Houlihan Lokey were advisors to PCA SKIN.
The terms of the deal have not been disclosed.
About Norwest Venture Partners
Norwest is a leading growth equity and venture investment firm managing more than $6 billion in capital. Since our inception, we have invested in more than 600 companies. The firm invests in early to late stage companies across a wide range of sectors with a focus on consumer, enterprise, and healthcare. We offer a deep network of connections, operating experience, and a wide range of impactful services to help CEOs and founders advance on their journey. Norwest has offices in Palo Alto and San Francisco, with subsidiaries in India and Israel. For more information, please visit Norwest . Follow Norwest on Twitter @NorwestVP.
About PCA SKIN®
Founded in 1990 as Physician's Choice of Arizona, Inc. by an aesthetician working with a handful of physicians, the company later evolved into Physicians Care Alliance, LLC, a global organization serving over 13,000 medical and aesthetic practices, with products sold in over 50 countries throughout the world. PCA SKIN® has been and continues to be a trusted innovator in the development of highly effective professional treatments and daily care products with the vision to improve people's lives by providing results-oriented skin care solutions that are backed by science for the health of your unique skin. PCA SKIN treatments and products are available through licensed skin health professionals that have been trained and certified by PCA SKIN in their use.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006131/en/
Norwest Venture Partners
Ellie Javadi, 650-714-5057
ejavadi@nvp.com
Source: Norwest Venture Partners