NOVATO, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical Inc. (NASDAQ:RARE), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel products for rare and ultra-rare diseases, today announced the pricing of its underwritten public offering of 4,385,965 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $57.00 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of $250 million before underwriting discounts. In addition, the company has granted the underwriters of the offering an option for a period of 30 days to purchase up to an additional 657,895 shares of the company's common stock at the public offering price, less the underwriting discount.
The offering is expected to close on or about January 26, 2018, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, BofA Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Cowen are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering.
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and became automatically effective on February 3, 2015. This offering is being made solely by means of prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus. When available, copies of the final prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus related to the offering may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, New York 11717, by telephone at 866-803-9204, or by email at prospectus-eq_fi@jpmchase.com ; BofA Merrill Lynch, NC1-004-03-43, 200 North College Street, 3rd floor, Charlotte, NC 28255-0001, Attention: Prospectus Department, or by email at dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com ; Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Prospectus Department, 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282, telephone: 1-866-471-2526, facsimile: 212-902-9316 or by emailing Prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com ; and Cowen, c/o Broadridge Financial Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY, 11717, United States, Attn.: Prospectus Department or by telephone 1-631-274-2806.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Ultragenyx
Ultragenyx is a biopharmaceutical company committed to bringing to market novel products for the treatment of rare and ultra-rare diseases, with a focus on serious, debilitating genetic diseases. The Company has rapidly built and advanced a diverse portfolio of product candidates with the potential to address diseases for which the unmet medical need is high, the biology for treatment is clear, and for which there are no approved therapies.
The Company is led by a management team experienced in the development and commercialization of rare disease therapeutics. Ultragenyx's strategy is predicated upon time and cost-efficient drug development, with the goal of delivering safe and effective therapies to patients with the utmost urgency.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this press release, including statements regarding the expected closing of the public offering, are within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our clinical development programs, future results, performance or achievements to differ significantly from those expressed or implied by the . Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainties related to market conditions and the completion of the public offering on the terms to which the company has agreed or at all, the uncertainties inherent in the clinical drug development process, such as the regulatory approval process, the timing of regulatory filings, and other matters that could affect sufficiency of existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments to fund operations and the availability or commercial potential of our drug candidates. Ultragenyx undertakes no obligation to update or revise any . For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in these , as well as risks relating to the business of Ultragenyx in general, see Ultragenyx's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 3, 2015, as may be amended from time to time, together with its preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 23, 2018 and, when available, its final prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus, and the documents incorporated by reference therein, including its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2017, and its subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Contact Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical Inc.
Investors & Media
Danielle Keatley
415-475-6876
Source:Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical Inc.