SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- LEWIS , the global marketing and communications agency, has appointed Jen Dobrzelecki as Senior Vice President and head of the New York office. Reporting into Stephen Corsi , Executive Vice President of LEWIS, Jen's appointment comes on the heels of several significant leadership hires in recent months, fueled by the agency's rapid growth.
In her new role, Jen will lead the development and expansion of the New York office. She will support the agency's consumer brand practice, oversee key client relationships and work closely with the executive leadership team to manage the fast-growing East Coast region. Jen will also play a critical role in leading agency creative culture, developing initiatives to attract diverse talent and reinforcing the agency's position as a top place to work.
Jen brings over two decades of agency experience to the team. She has led award-winning integrated communications programs for some of the world's biggest brands across a variety of B2C and B2B sectors. She joins from M&C Saatchi PR, where she headed the agency's U.S. team as executive vice president. Formerly, she was an executive director at Golin managing major brand relationships in the agency's consumer practice.
"Jen comes to LEWIS at an exciting time as we continue to develop our presence on the East Coast," stated Stephen. "Her breadth of experience across consumer, tech, automotive, health, food, luxury and lifestyle brands aligns perfectly with our strategic growth and expansion initiatives. We're delighted to welcome a strong PR veteran like her to the team."
"Coming off of an incredibly strong 2017, there couldn't be a better time to join LEWIS," stated Jen. "With its unique approach to integrating traditional PR with digital and marketing services, LEWIS is in a prime position for aggressive growth this year and beyond. I look forward to continuing the momentum set by the talented, multi-faceted team around the globe."
About LEWIS
LEWIS is a communications agency that provides public relations, marketing and digital services for clients around the world. Consistently named as one of the industry's fastest-growing agencies, LEWIS has 550 staff across 30 offices throughout Asia, Europe and North America.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lewis-expands-us-leadership-skills-with-appointment-of-jen-dobrzelecki-300578494.html
SOURCE LEWIS PR - San Diego