NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Jamison Capital Partners LP, a New York-based macro commodity hedge fund run by former Morgan Stanley trader Stephen Jamison, will be shutting its nearly $1.5 billion fund and converting to a family office, a source familiar with the matter said on Thursday.
The closure of Jamison, one of the largest commodity-focused hedge funds, comes after several other big names have closed shop in recent months. They include hedge fund manager Andy Hall, who closed his Astenbeck Capital Management last summer, and Texas tycoon T. Boone Pickens, who said this month that he was closing his fund, in part due to declining health.
A spokesperson for Jamison did not respond to requests for comment.
Jamison was down 9 percent last year, according to two other sources familiar with the fund’s returns, driven in part by some losses on natural gas in the second half of the year.
Macro commodity hedge funds returned an average of 0.01 percent in 2017, making it one of the worst-performing strategies last year, according to data from industry tracker Hedge Fund Research.
Many trading firms and banks reported poor results in 2017 due to muted client activity and wild fluctuations across energy markets. Goldman Sachs said the second quarter of 2017 was its worst quarter on record in commodities.
Stephen Jamison, a former Morgan Stanley trader, started the fund in 2009 and mainly invested in commodities, but also other assets when better opportunities arise.
The firm’s shutting comes shortly after it pulled a $125 million investment with New York-based commodities hedge fund manager Massar Capital Management, another source with knowledge of the matter told Reuters.
Jamison initially invested with Massar in February 2015. The investment was pulled at the end of 2017, shortly before Jamison elected to shut. Massar, which still has $215 million in assets under management, will continue to operate, the source said.
Reporting by Catherine Ngai in New York and Maiya Keidan in London; Additional reporting by Lawrence Delevingne; Editing by Lisa Shumaker
 