BOSTON, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kitewheel , provider of the leading Customer Journey Hub for brands and agencies, today announced results for 2017 that show major year-over-year business momentum. The company highlighted a number of significant developments that contributed to its most successful year since its founding in 2013.
The past twelve months saw the company achieve over 100% YoY growth in sales of its market leading customer journey software. Kitewheel also launching two new lines of business - one aimed at direct brands and the other at OEM technology partners. This is the fifth successive year that Kitewheel has experienced at least 100% growth within the business.
In addition to the major growth in its licensing business, Kitewheel’s brand-direct offering began winning customers within only a few months of its summer launch, including one of America’s top performers in customer experience - evidencing the central role of customer journey orchestration in delivering superior CX. The OEM side of the business, formally launched early in the year, won four new technology partners that are embedding Kitewheel customer journey capabilities into their products.
To support the businesses’ growth, Kitewheel expanded to new offices in all 3 company locations - Boston, New York and London, more than doubling overall capacity. During 2017 the company also added several key executive hires and promotions that have expanded the management team, including:
Neil Skilling, Chief Technology Officer Timothy Claytor, SVP, Partner Development Rick Fuller, VP, Direct Sales Joshua Berkowitz, VP, Product Development Roy Todd, VP, Engineering James Allum, Managing Director EMEA
“The significant expansion of our business in 2017 is an indicator of the major demand that exists for improving customer experience through customer journey orchestration. Leading brands recognize that the experience they deliver to customers is now their biggest competitive differentiator,” said Mark Smith, President of Kitewheel. “It’s been so exciting to see the market traction from our new product offerings, and I’m incredibly proud of what our team has achieved this year improving and delivering our industry-leading product and services.”
In addition to its commercial momentum, Kitewheel also recently launched the 10th major update of its Customer Journey Hub, the journey orchestration platform recently recognized by Forrester as the leading solution in the customer journey space. To learn more about the product, click here .
About Kitewheel
Kitewheel orchestrates intelligent customer journeys by unifying decisions across all touchpoints for brands and their agencies. Kitewheel’s innovative Customer Journey Hub unifies disparate systems, touchpoints and technologies to provide seamless customer experiences that drive real-time revenue as well as long-term loyalty.
Kitewheel serves its global partner and client base from offices in Boston, New York City and London. For more information, please visit www.kitewheel.com and follow Kitewheel on Twitter and LinkedIn .
Media Contact: Lauren Johnson, kitewheel@scratchmm.com
Source: Kitewheel