SAN DIEGO, the world’s leading provider of acoustic hailing devices and advanced mass notification systems, today announced plans to release financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2017 after the market close on Thursday, February 8, 2018. The Company will then host a conference call and webcast at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time to discuss details and answer questions about its business and financial results.
The details of the call are as follows:
Date: Thursday, February 8, 2018
Time: 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (1:30 p.m. Pacific Time)
Toll-Free Dial-In Number: 888.390.3967
International Dial-In Number: 404.267.0369
Webcast link: https://www.webcaster4.com/Webcast/Page/1375/24334
Please dial-in five minutes prior to the start time and tell the operator you are calling in for the LRAD Fiscal First Quarter 2018 Financial Results Call. If you have any difficulty connecting with the call, please contact Brian Harvey, Director, Investor Relations and Capital Markets, at 858.753.8974. Questions to management may be submitted before or during the call by emailing them to: investor@LRAD.com .
A replay of the call will be available approximately four hours after the conference call and remain available for 90 days at the above webcast link.
NobleCon14
LRAD Chief Executive Officer, Richard S. Danforth and Director of Investor Relations, E. Brian Harvey will present at NobleCon14 , Noble Capital Markets’ Fourteenth Annual Investor Conference at the W Hotel, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on Monday, January 29, 2018.
About LRAD Corporation
The Company's proprietary Long Range Acoustic Devices ® , innovative ONE VOICE ® mass notification systems, and advanced Genasys™ mass messaging solutions are designed to enable users to safely hail and warn, inform and direct, prevent misunderstandings, determine intent, establish large safety zones, resolve uncertain situations, and save lives. LRAD systems are in service in more than 70 countries around the world in diverse applications including mass notification and public address, fixed and mobile defense deployments, homeland, border, critical infrastructure, maritime, oil & gas, and port security, public safety, law enforcement and emergency responder communications, asset protection, and wildlife control and preservation. please visit http://www.LRAD.com .
About Noble Capital Markets, Inc.
Noble Capital Markets, established in 1984, is an equity-research driven, full-service, investment & merchant banking boutique focused on the healthcare, media & entertainment, technology, transportation & logistics and natural resources sectors. The company has offices in Boca Raton, New York and Boston and St. Louis. In addition to NobleCon - the annual multi-sector investor conference - and the Media, Finance & Investor Program, produced in partnership with the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) and held each spring in Las Vegas, throughout the year Noble hosts numerous “non-deal” corporate road shows across the United States and Canada. Members: FINRA, SIPC, MSRB. www.noblecapitalmarkets.com .
Company Contact E. Brian Harvey Director, Investor Relations and Capital Markets 858.753.8974 ebharvey@lrad.com
Source:LRAD Corporation