NEW YORK, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Aura Frames, the digital photograph display company whose smart frames couple modern design with elegant curation software, today announced that design veteran Scott Chapps has joined as Head of Product Design and Product Strategy. In his role, Chapps will continue to evolve the brand to ensure the perfect fusion between digital frame technology and elegant home style and décor.
Prior to joining Aura Frames, Chapps helped drive the design choices of notable innovators such as Casper, Allbirds, Maple and C by GE, among others, in his more than 20-year career of collaborating with companies in the U.S, the U.K. and Sweden. In 2006, Chapps co-founded ChappsMalina, a product design studio in New York and led multiple strategic design initiatives for globally recognized brands across various industries, including Samsung, Panasonic, Electrolux, PepsiCo, and Johnson & Johnson.
"In the 'Smart Home' space, there are a variety of technology products that do not actually fit into our home décor, and so at Aura Frames we want to develop the kind of product we associate with impeccable interior and architectural design," Chapps said. "We want to create an emotionally-driven connection that never becomes obsolete. Our products are incredibly authentic, using only the very best materials in ways that currently do not exist in the technology category. We also feel deeply that 'good design' has longevity and moves beyond the technology product trend line. At Aura Frames, we are creating smart home picture frames with the highest level of technology and still maintain that elevated eloquence our higher end customer expects."
Aura Frames is creating a new category in the digital frame business by delivering a frame powered by machine learning, designed by some of the top, most creative engineers in the nation and connected to an app that allows friends and family to instantly send new and old memories directly to the frame. Aura Frames delivers where all other digital picture frames fall short: in the design of the physical frames, having even partnered with renowned designers such as Jonathan Adler, in addition to the technology delivering ultra high density display.
"Prior to the introduction of Aura Frames, the digital frame category remained unchanged for a decade both in its technology and its look," said Jonathan Harris, President at Aura Frames. "We are creating a new category that is highly advanced in its technology, looks good in your home or office and lets your friends and family share photos with you immediately. Scott's product and design background will be the driving force for Aura frames as we continue to grow."
ABOUT AURA
Aura is an innovator in the smart home decor category. By marrying high-end design with cutting-edge technology, Aura's smart frame fundamentally changes the way you experience photography by magically gathering photos that you care about from your family and displaying them in beautiful frames.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aura-frames-hires-scott-chapps-as-head-of-product-design-300588232.html
SOURCE Aura Frames