SINGAPORE, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Butler Snow is pleased to announce that John Shoemaker has joined the firm in Singapore. Shoemaker will join the firm’s business services practice group.
“We are excited to continue growing our Singapore office with John, an experienced new addition in our business services group,” said Donald Clark, Jr., chairman of Butler Snow. “He brings excellent wealth, taxation, trust and estate planning expertise to our firm.”
Shoemaker has more than 25 years of experience in legal and regulatory compliance. His background includes common law with an educational emphasis on taxation, trusts and estate planning, including extensive experience in ensuring multi-jurisdictional compliance for product offerings.
Shoemaker previously served as the global head of product management for UBS Wealth Planning Trusts and Foundations, which required creating, delivering and supporting profitable, fully compliant, demand-driven wealth planning structures.
He was responsible for the company’s division-wide Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and Automatic Exchange of Information (AEI) compliance plans, which involved entity classification assignment and compliance path selections for thousands of proprietary and fiduciary entities, as well as development of internal policies and procedures to implement due diligence and reporting operations.
Shoemaker has also served as the staff attorney for Coventry Health Care of Kansas, where he was responsible for multistate compliance filings. This involved drafting of compliant policy language, coordination with regulatory staff to secure approvals and staff training to achieve a timely and efficient product launch across a broad line of offerings. In addition he previously served in various governmental roles within the Kansas Insurance Department and Kansas Senate.
Shoemaker received his undergraduate in political science from the University of Kansas and his masters in taxation from the University of Alabama. He earned his Juris Doctor from Washburn University.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/dcdab7b4-7375-4c53-b2cd-977c7eeca09c
Todd Smith Butler Snow 6152027944 todd@deanesmith.agency
Source: Butler Snow