BOSTON, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- CloudHealth Technologies , the leader in cloud service management, today announced the appointment of Greg Nicastro as Chief Product Officer, a newly created position that will focus on building and scaling product teams globally. Nicastro's hire coincides with the sustained and significant evolution of the company's industry-leading cloud management platform, CloudHealth, which helps enterprises accelerate business transformation in the cloud.
2018 promises to be another high growth year for the company. CloudHealth Technologies -- which named Tom Axbey as President and CEO in September -- is coming off a $46 million Series D funding round in June and planning to move to expanded global headquarters in downtown Boston. As CPO, Nicastro will play an integral role in seeing the company through its next phase, unifying and leading CloudHealth Technologies teams as they continue to develop cloud solutions that empower customers to control the problems associated with "cloud chaos." Nicastro will be based in Boston and report directly to CEO Tom Axbey.
Nicastro comes to CloudHealth Technologies with over two decades of executive experience in leadership positions across the entire product lifecycle, including product management and corporate development, consulting and strategy. Prior to joining CloudHealth Technologies, he spent nearly six years with Veracode as Executive Vice President of Product Development, leading the company's transformation to the public cloud, while balancing a mandate for efficiency and security.
"In a rapidly scaling global company, it's critical that we maintain our momentum both internally, as we expand the team, and externally, as we work to provide ongoing customer value globally," said Tom Axbey, President and CEO, CloudHealth Technologies. "As a former CloudHealth customer, Greg not only brings a valuable perspective--he also carries a successful track record with proven expertise in building world-class product teams. He will be critical in spearheading the next phase of growth and helping maintain our market leadership position."
"The CloudHealth story is built upon amazing people and technology," said Greg Dracon, Partner at .406 Ventures and member of the CloudHealth Technologies Board of Directors. "Greg, who is coming fresh off a very successful run during his time at Veracode, is a tremendous hire and a testament to the ability of CloudHealth Technologies to attract top talent. He will help to propel the company's product teams into the next era of cloud transformation and growth on a global scale."
Nicastro's career experience to-date has provided him with both an ISV and an enterprise perspective, giving him a unique outlook on enterprise-class software development and delivery. Prior to Veracode, he was an EVP at Iron Mountain Corporate and Iron Mountain Digital. During his time there he led Product Management and was responsible for both IT Systems Development and Engineering.
About CloudHealth Technologies
CloudHealth, the recognized worldwide leader in the growing Cloud Service Management industry, provides integrated reporting, recommendations and active policy management to help companies control the problems associated with "cloud chaos." Our comprehensive platform gives enterprise companies and MSPs the ability to visualize, optimize and govern their cloud and hybrid environments. By providing analysis and deep insight into historical trends, capacity planning, resource optimization and resource automation, CloudHealth enables stakeholders ranging from C-level executives to engineers, cloud specialists, architects, IT directors and LOB managers to improve performance and drive value through their cloud ecosystems. Well-known organizations that rely on CloudHealth's capabilities and expertise include Amtrak, Dow Jones, Acquia, and Sumo Logic, among others. Based in Boston, the company is backed by Kleiner Perkins, Sapphire Ventures, Scale Venture Partners, .406 Ventures and Sigma Prime Ventures. For continuous product updates, industry news and engagement, visit us at www.cloudhealthtech.com or follow us @cloudhealthtech.
Contact
Lauren Palazzo, Text100 for CloudHealth
Lauren.Palazzo@text100.com
(617) 399-4909
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cloudhealth-technologies-names-greg-nicastro-as-chief-product-officer-to-further-innovate-cloud-service-management-offerings-300588106.html
SOURCE CloudHealth Technologies