Wolters Kluwer Governance, Risk & Compliance Completes Divestment of Corsearch
January 5, 2018 - Wolters Kluwer Governance, Risk & Compliance announces today that it has completed the divestment of Corsearch to Audax Private Equity, as originally announced on October 23, 2017.
About Wolters Kluwer
Wolters Kluwer N.V. (AEX: WKL) is a global leader in information services and solutions for professionals in the health, tax and accounting, risk and compliance, finance and legal sectors. We help our customers make critical decisions every day by providing expert solutions that combine deep domain knowledge with specialized technology and services.
Wolters Kluwer reported 2016 annual revenues of €4.3 billion. The company, headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, serves customers in over 180 countries, maintains operations in over 40 countries, and employs 19,000 people worldwide.
Wolters Kluwer shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam (WKL) and are included in the AEX and Euronext 100 indices. Wolters Kluwer has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt program. The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter market in the U.S. (WTKWY).
For more information about our solutions and organization, visit www.wolterskluwer.com , follow us on Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn , and YouTube .
Investors/Analysts Meg Geldens Investor Relations + 31 172 641 407 ir@wolterskluwer.com Media Annemarije Pikaar Charles Miller Global Brand & Communications Corporate Marketing & Communications Governance, Risk & Compliance + 31 172 641 470 +1 320 240 5457 annemarije.pikaar@wolterskluwer.com charles.miller@wolterskluwer.com Forward-looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect", "should", "could", "shall" and similar expressions. Wolters Kluwer cautions that such forward-looking statements are qualified by certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from what is contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, general economic conditions; conditions in the markets in which Wolters Kluwer is engaged; behavior of customers, suppliers, and competitors; technological developments; the implementation and execution of new ICT systems or outsourcing; and legal, tax, and regulatory rules affecting Wolters Kluwer's businesses, as well as risks related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. In addition, financial risks such as currency movements, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity, and credit risks could influence future results. The foregoing list of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Wolters Kluwer disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
This press release contains information which is to be made publicly available under Regulation (EU) 596/2014.
Attachments:
http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6d76028a-96fe-43ce-a0c6-5c6ca503e2ab
Source:Wolters Kluwer NV