January 11, 2018 / 1:03 AM / Updated 15 minutes ago Photocopier pioneer Xerox in talks for deal with Japan's Fujifilm - WSJ Reuters Staff 3 Min Read 
(Reuters) - Xerox Corp ( XRX.N ), under pressure to find new growth sources amid shrinking demand for its printer and copier business, is in talks for a deal with Japanese camera maker Fujifilm Holdings ( 4901.T ) that could include a change in control of Xerox, the Wall Street Journal reported.   Xerox company is seen on a building in Minsk, Belarus, March 21, 2016. REUTERS/Vasily Fedosenko/File Photo 
Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox been targeted by activist investor Carl Icahn as it struggles to reinvent its legacy business amid waning demand for office printing. Fujifilm is trying to streamline its copier business with a larger focus on document solutions services. 
Xerox, which pioneered photocopiers, and Fujifilm already have a five-decade old Tokyo-based copier joint venture focusing on the Asia Pacific region including Japan and China, leaving Xerox to cover the rest of the world. 
The Journal report on Wednesday cited people familiar with the matter. It also said a full takeover of Xerox is not on the table, citing one of the people. ( on.wsj.com/2EwGDXQ ) 
Xerox declined to comment. Fujifilm said it would not comment on speculative reports. 
Xerox has a market value of about $7.7 billion (5.70 billion pounds), while Fujifilm is valued at around $22 billion. 
Xerox “desperately” needed new leadership as it was slow to launch new products and increase revenue, Icahn wrote in an open letter to shareholders in December, a day after nominating four members to the board. He is Xerox’s biggest shareholder with a stake of 9.7 percent. FILE PHOTO: Fujifilm's company logos are seen at its exhibition hall nearby the headquarters of Fujifilm Holdings Corp in Tokyo, Japan June 12, 2017. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon 
Xerox spun off its business process outsourcing unit in 2016 and separated into two independent, publicly traded companies. 
Fujifilm shares fell 1.8 percent in Tokyo to 4,724 yen per share following the Journal report, while the broader Japanese market .N225 slipped 0.3 percent. 
The copier joint venture, Fuji Xerox, was created in 1962 and now accounts for nearly half of Fujifilm’s sales and operating profit. 
Fujifilm has been seeking growth outside its shrinking photographic film business, stepping up its acquisition drive in areas such as regenerative medicine. 
Past deals include the 2015 purchase of Cellular Dynamics International Inc, a U.S. biotechnology firm that makes human-induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell lines and tissue cells. 
Last August, it said it aimed to spend 500 billion yen ($4.49 billion) in strategic acquisitions over three years. 
($1 = 111.7000 yen) Reporting by Uday Sampath in Bengaluru, Minami Funakoshi and Makiko Yamazaki in Tokyo; Editing by Grant McCool and Muralikumar Anantharaman