SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Luis A. Torres Olivera has been named Puerto Rico Market President for health and well-being company Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM).
In his new role, Torres Olivera will assume responsibility for Humana’s Puerto Rico operations, which include Medicare Advantage and commercial group health insurance offered through employers. He will also oversee Humana’s TPA (third party administrator), and Humana Management Services which provides bilingual telephonic clinical and operational services. Humana currently serves approximately 128,000 health plan members in Puerto Rico.
A seasoned leader, Torres Olivera brings more than 20 years of experience in health care and insurance. He joined Humana in 2004 and has overseen multiple, high-profile projects. In his previous role as Market Vice President, Torres Olivera led the development and implementation of strategies for Medicaid and Medicare in Puerto Rico, including Humana’s involvement in the Mi Salud and Platino programs. In addition, Torres Olivera had responsibility for the Network Operations Division that includes contracting and relationship management with individual health care providers, facilities and medical groups.
“Luis is well known and well respected by our employees, government officials and regulators and the entire Puerto Rico health care community,” said Humana Puerto Rico Regional President Bruno Piquin. “He has a deep knowledge of our business on the island, and I’m confident that he can help continue our momentum in Puerto Rico, as we strive to help the people we serve achieve their best health.”
Torres Olivera’s new role was previously occupied by Earl Harper, who has announced his retirement at the end of February.
About Humana
Humana Inc. is committed to helping our millions of medical and specialty members achieve their best health. Our successful history in care delivery and health plan administration is helping us create a new kind of integrated care with the power to improve health and well-being and lower costs. Our efforts are leading to a better quality of life for people with Medicare, families, individuals, military service personnel, and communities at large.
To accomplish that, we support physicians and other health care professionals as they work to deliver the right care in the right place for their patients, our members. Our range of clinical capabilities, resources and tools – such as in-home care, behavioral health, pharmacy services, data analytics and wellness solutions – combine to produce a simplified experience that makes health care easier to navigate and more effective.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company’s web site at www.humana.com , including copies of:
Annual reports to stockholders Securities and Exchange Commission filings Most recent investor conference presentations Quarterly earnings news releases and conference calls Calendar of events Corporate Governance information
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006154/en/
Humana
Sandra Estada, 787-697-6345
sestada@humana.com
Source: Humana Inc.