HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Idera, Inc. , (“Idera”) parent company of global B2B software productivity brands, today announced the promotion of Heidi Farris to vice president and general manager of the company’s Database Tools business. The company also announced the promotion of Neil Garrett, who will replace Farris as chief marketing officer.
“Heidi and Neil’s leadership over the past few years drove Idera’s success and I expect even more impact as they transition into new executive roles,” said Randy Jacops, CEO of Idera, Inc. “As we continue to invest in and grow our database and related business units, having trusted leaders in these key positions will be critical to capturing the opportunity in the core markets we serve.”
Over the past two years, Idera successfully merged multiple acquired companies into its database, development and test management software product portfolio, recently achieving a $1.125 billion valuation by private equity firm HGGC, which purchased a majority stake in the company.
Farris will be responsible for prioritizing and driving initiatives to improve Idera’s database business, which includes the IDERA and AquaFold brands. Recently named a Bronze Stevie® Award winner in the "Woman of the Year – Technology" category, she has been integral to Idera’s expanded software portfolio, solidifying its position as a leading provider of database, development and test management software solutions.
Garrett spent the last two years as vice president of marketing for IDERA, leading eCommerce, web development, digital strategy, product marketing, social, events, corporate communications and community initiatives for the database tools business. In his new role, Garrett will lead the same activities across the company, working closely with product and sales leadership to deliver on Idera’s customer success and growth goals.
About Idera, Inc.
Idera, Inc. delivers B2B software productivity tools that enable technical users to do more with less, faster. Idera, Inc. brands span three divisions – Database Tools, Developer Tools, and Testing Tools – with products evangelized by millions of community members and more than 50,000 customers worldwide, including some of the world's largest healthcare, financial services, retail, and technology companies. To learn more, visit: ideracorp.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006178/en/
for Idera, Inc.
David Gibbs, 512-826-0754
david@foliocommunications.com
Source: Idera, Inc.