HOUSTON, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nine Energy Service, Inc. (NYSE:Nine) (“Nine”) announced today that it has launched an initial public offering of its common stock pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The offering consists of 7,000,000 shares of common stock being offered by Nine. In addition, Nine intends to grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 1,050,000 shares of common stock at the initial public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The current expected initial offering price is between $20.00 and $23.00 per share. The shares have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “NINE,” subject to official notice of issuance.
J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as joint book-running managers and as representatives of the underwriters for the offering. BofA Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse are also acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. The offering of these securities will be made only by means of a prospectus that meets the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from:
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions
1155 Long Island Avenue
Edgewood, New York 11717
Telephone: (866) 803-9204
prospectus-eq_fi@jpmchase.com
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Attention: Prospectus Department
100 Burma Road
Jersey City, New Jersey 07305
Telephone: (201) 793-5170
prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
Attention: Equity Syndicate Department
375 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10152
Telephone: (800) 326-5897
cmclientsupport@wellsfargo.com
About Nine Energy Service, Inc.
Nine Energy Service, Inc. is a leading North American onshore completion and production services provider that targets unconventional oil and gas resource development. Nine partners with exploration and production customers across all major onshore basins in both the U.S. and Canada to design and deploy downhole solutions and technology to prepare horizontal, multistage wells for production. Nine is headquartered in Houston, Texas with operating facilities in the Permian, Eagle Ford, MidCon, Barnett, Bakken, Rockies, Marcellus, Utica and throughout Canada.
Important Information
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. The registration statement may be obtained free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov under “Nine Energy Service, Inc.” This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the size, timing or results of the initial public offering, represent Nine’s expectations or beliefs concerning future events, and it is possible that the results described in this press release will not be achieved. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of Nine’s control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and, except as required by law, Nine does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Nine to predict all such factors. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in the prospectus filed with the SEC in connection with Nine’s initial public offering. The risk factors and other factors noted in Nine’s prospectus could cause its actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Contacts
Nine Energy Service, Inc.
Heather Schmidt, Director, Investor Relations & Marketing
(281) 730-5113
investors@nineenergyservice.com
Source:Nine Energy Service, Inc.