Transaction Expands Mexichem Compounds Presence in the U.S. Market with a Strong Team and a Complementary Product and Application Portfolio
TLALNEPANTLA DE BAZ, Mexico--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Mexichem, S.A.B. de C.V. (BMV: MEXCHEM*) (“The Company” or “Mexichem”) announced that it has acquired Sylvin Technologies Inc., a niche PVC compounds manufacturer based in Denver, Pennsylvania for an Enterprise Value of $39 million based on a debt free cash free valuation. Sylvin is expected to have total sales of $29 million for the full year of 2017. It has a 30-year history of serving a broad range of industries including: wire and cable, electrical, industrial, automotive, medical and food products. Mexichem will consolidate Sylvin under the Company’s Vinyl Business Group as part of its Compounds Business Unit, a leading supplier of PVC compound solutions serving the global market. Our Vinyl Business Group reported sales of $2.2 billion for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2017.
Combining Sylvin’s customer-focused business model, strong team and application development capabilities with Mexichem’s global compounds business will allow Mexichem to deliver even greater value to its combined U.S. customers. Sylvin’s key raw materials are PVC resin, plasticizers and stabilizers, which should bring synergies to Mexichem’s Vinyl operations. “This transaction continues Mexichem’s strategy of completing bolt-on acquisitions that expand its portfolio of specialty products and applications and give access to new end markets and customers, driving future growth. These products and applications can be further leveraged globally as we expand in other parts of the world” said Sameer S. Bharadwaj, President of the Compounds Business Unit.
“The acquisition of Sylvin is a further step towards downstream integration in specialty products with higher margins that enables sustainable growth of our return on invested capital over our weighted average cost of capital in the long run,” Antonio Carrillo, CEO of Mexichem remarked.
ABOUT MEXICHEM
Mexichem is a global leader in plastic piping and one of the world’s largest chemical and petrochemical companies. It has more than 50 years of experience. The Company contributes to global development by delivering an extended portfolio of products to high growth sectors such as infrastructure, housing, datacom and water management, among others. With operations in 37 countries, 120 facilities worldwide and more than 18,000 employees, Mexichem has the rights to produce fluorspar in two mines in Mexico, as well as 8 formation academies and 15 R&D labs. Operations are divided into two value chains and three business units: Ethylene Chain: Vinyl and Fluent Business and Fluor Value Chain, which includes Fluor business group. Mexichem has annual revenues of US$5.4 billion and has been traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange for more than 30 years. The company is member of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index and the sustainability emerging markets index FTSE4Good.
Forward-looking Statements
In addition to historical information, this press release contains "forward-looking" statements that reflect management's expectations for the future. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “hope,” “have the intention of,” “might,” “plan,” “should” and similar expressions generally indicate comments on expectations. The final results may be materially different from current expectations due to several factors, which include, but are not limited to, global and local changes in politics, the economy, business, competition, market and regulatory factors, cyclical trends in relevant sectors; as well as other factors that are highlighted under the title “Risk Factors” on the annual report submitted by Mexichem to the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). The forward-looking statements included herein represent Mexichem’s views as of the date of this press release. Mexichem undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason unless required by law.”
Mexichem has implemented a new Code of Ethics that rules its relationships with its employees, clients, suppliers and general groups. Mexichem’s Code of Ethics is available for consulting in the following link: http://www.mexichem.com/Codigo_de_etica.html Additionally, according to the terms contained in the Securities Exchange Act No 42, Mexichem Audit Committee established a mechanism of contact, which allows that any person that knows the unfulfilment of operational and accounting records guidelines and lack of internal controls of the Code of Ethics, from the Company itself or from the subsidiaries that this controls, file a complaint which is anonymously guaranteed. The whistleblower program is facilitated by a third party. The telephone number in Mexico is 01-800-062-12-03. The website is http://www.ethic-line.com/mexichem and contact e-mail is mexichem@ethic-line.com . Mexichem’s Audit Committee will be notified of all complaints for immediate investigation.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006710/en/
Investor Relations:
Mexichem, S.A.B. de C.V.
Fabiola Molina del Valle, + (52) 55.5366.4050
fabiola.molina@mexichem.com
www.mexichem.com
Source: Mexichem, S.A.B. de C.V.