ALISO VIEJO, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Sunstone Hotel Investors, Inc. (the "Company" or "Sunstone") (NYSE: SHO) today announced the sale of the 289-room Marriott Philadelphia and the 464-room Marriott Quincy for a combined gross sale price of $139.0 million, or approximately $184,600 per key. The sale price represents a 10.3x multiple on combined 2017 Hotel Adjusted EBITDA of $13.5 million and an 8.3% capitalization rate on combined 2017 Hotel Net Operating Income and excludes approximately $12 million of brand required capital expenditures. The disposition of these two hotels furthers the Company's stated strategy of concentrating its portfolio in long-term relevant real estate.
About Sunstone Hotel Investors, Inc.
Sunstone Hotel Investors, Inc. is a lodging real estate investment trust ("REIT") that as of the date herein has interests in 25 hotels comprised of 12,450 rooms. Sunstone's hotels are primarily in the urban and resort, upper upscale segment and are operated under nationally recognized brands, such as Marriott, Hilton and Hyatt. For further information, please visit Sunstone's website at www.sunstonehotels.com .
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present the following non-GAAP financial measures that we believe are useful to investors as key supplemental measures of our operating performance: adjusted earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below); funds from operations attributable to common stockholders, or Adjusted FFO attributable to common stockholders (as defined below); hotel Adjusted EBITDA; and hotel Adjusted EBITDA margin;. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, FFO attributable to common stockholders, Adjusted FFO attributable to common stockholders, hotel Adjusted EBITDA and hotel Adjusted EBITDA margin as calculated by us, may not be comparable to other companies that do not define such terms exactly the same as the Company does. These non-GAAP measures are used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. They should not be considered as alternatives to operating profit, cash flow from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect additional ways of viewing our operations that we believe, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliations to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained absent this disclosure. We strongly encourage investors to review our financial information in its entirety and not to rely on a single financial measure.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are commonly used measures of performance in many industries. We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because these measures help investors evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization) from our operating results. We also believe the use of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA facilitate comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. In addition, certain covenants included in our indebtedness use EBITDA as a measure of financial compliance. We also use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as measures in determining the value of hotel acquisitions and dispositions.
Historically, we have adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful information to investors regarding our operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance.
We believe that the presentation of FFO attributable to common stockholders provides useful information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance because it is a measure of our operations without regard to specified noncash items such as real estate depreciation and amortization, amortization of lease intangibles, any real estate impairment loss and any gain or loss on sale of real estate assets, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and may be of lesser significance in evaluating our current performance. Our presentation of FFO attributable to common stockholders conforms to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts' ("NAREIT") definition of "FFO applicable to common shares." This may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs that do not define the terms in accordance with the current NAREIT definition, or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than we do.
We also present Adjusted FFO attributable to common stockholders when evaluating our operating performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our operating performance, and may facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and our peer companies.
We adjust EBITDA and FFO attributable to common stockholders for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to these measures as either Adjusted EBITDA or Adjusted FFO attributable to common stockholders because we believe these items do not reflect the underlying performance of our hotels:
Amortization of favorable and unfavorable contracts Noncash ground rent Gains or losses from debt transactions Acquisition costs Pro rata share of any EBITDA or FFO adjustments related to noncontrolling interests Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle Impairment losses. Other adjustment such as executive severance costs, lawsuit settlement costs, prior year property tax adjustments and fees, property-level restructuring, severance and management transition costs, lease buyouts, uninsured losses and any gains or losses we have recognized on sales or redemptions of assets other than real estate investments
In addition, to derive Adjusted EBITDA we exclude the noncash expense incurred with the amortization of deferred stock compensation as this expense does not reflect the underlying performance of our hotels. We also include an adjustment for the cash ground lease expenses recorded on the ground lease at the Courtyard by Marriott Los Angeles and the building lease at the Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile. We have determined that both of these leases are capital leases, and, therefore, we include a portion of the capital lease payments each month in interest expense. We include an adjustment for ground lease expense on capital leases in order to more accurately reflect the actual rent due to both hotels' lessors in the current period, as well as the operating performance of both hotels. We also exclude the effect of gains and losses on the disposition of depreciable assets and any impairments on our assets because we believe that including them in Adjusted EBITDA is not consistent with reflecting the ongoi