BOSTON, Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The three John Hancock closed-end funds listed below declared their monthly distributions today as follows:
Declaration Date:
January 2, 2018
Ex Date:
January 11, 2018
Record Date:
January 12, 2018
Payment Date:
January 31, 2018
Ticker
Fund Name
Distribution
Per Share
Change From
Previous
Distribution
Market Price as
of 12/29/2017
Annualized Current
Distribution Rate at
Market
HPI
Preferred Income Fund
$0.1400
-
$21.42
7.84%
HPF
Preferred Income Fund II
$0.1400
-
$21.49
7.82%
HPS
Preferred Income Fund III
$0.1222
-
$18.75
7.82%
A portion of a Fund's current distribution may include sources other than net investment income, including a return of capital. Investors should understand that a return of capital is not a distribution from income or gains of a Fund. As required under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a notice with the estimated components of the distribution will be sent to shareholders at the time of payment if it does not consist solely of net investment income. Such notice will also be posted to the Funds' website at www.jhinvestments.com . The notice should not be used to prepare tax returns as the estimates indicated in the notice may differ from the ultimate federal income tax characterization of distributions. After the end of each calendar year, investors will be sent a Form 1099-DIV informing them how to report distributions received during that year for federal income tax purposes.
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined by the United States securities laws. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they are subject to uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Fund's control and could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
An investor should consider a Fund's investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before investing.
About John Hancock Investments
John Hancock Investments provides asset management services to individuals and institutions through a unique manager-of-managers approach. A wealth management business of John Hancock Financial, we managed more than $148 billion in assets as of September 30, 2017, across mutual funds, college savings plans, and retirement plans.
About John Hancock Financial and Manulife Financial
John Hancock Financial is a division of Manulife Financial, a leading Canada-based financial services group with principal operations in Asia, Canada and the United States. Operating as Manulife Financial in Canada and Asia, and primarily as John Hancock in the United States, the Company offers clients a diverse range of financial protection products and wealth management services through its extensive network of employees, agents and distribution partners. Funds under management by Manulife Financial and its subsidiaries were C$1 trillion (US$806 billion) as of September 30, 2017. Manulife Financial Corporation trades as 'MFC' on the TSX, NYSE and PSE, and under '945' on the SEHK. Manulife Financial can be found on the Internet at manulife.com .
The John Hancock unit, through its insurance companies, comprises one of the largest life insurers in the United States. John Hancock offers and administers a broad range of financial products, including life insurance , annuities , fixed products, mutual funds , 401(k) plans , college savings , and other forms of business insurance. Additional information about John Hancock may be found at johnhancock.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/john-hancock-closed-end-funds-declare-monthly-distributions-300576629.html
SOURCE John Hancock Investments