MOBILE, Ala., Jan. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Volkert, Inc. announces that effective today, current CEO and Chairman of the Board Perry Hand is stepping down as CEO and appointing President and COO Jerry Stump as his successor. Hand has led the nearly-century-old infrastructure engineering firm for seven years and has worked at the firm in leadership capacities since 1993. He remains as Chairman of the Board supporting the CEO in corporate activities.
Two years after taking over as CEO in 2011, Hand hired Stump as COO in a move that set the stage for strategic succession. Owing to the two men's remarkably smooth collaboration and complementary strengths, Volkert grew from a $77 million firm in 2011 to a $180 million firm today, reflecting a 15 percent growth rate year-over-year for the last six years.
In addition, in 2016 Volkert launched Volkert Global, Inc., the company's international arm. Stump also serves as CEO of Volkert Global. In 2017, Volkert Global established its first international office in Lima, Peru.
"This transfer of leadership represents a well-thought-out succession plan that's been five years in the making," says Hand. "Jerry's outstanding performance as President and Chief Operating Officer has helped our firm achieve growth that is virtually unprecedented in our industry. In 2017 he received the Chairman's Award, Volkert's highest recognition of leadership. I can think of no one better suited to lead this firm into its second century of business than Jerry Stump."
"I am incredibly honored to receive this appointment from Perry Hand," states Stump. "Perry has provided leadership, stability, and growth to Volkert through a quarter century of service. No incoming leader could ask for a better example and mentor. I'm excited about our firm's direction as we continue to engineer the future of infrastructure and improve the communities we serve. In so doing, I'm privileged to work with some of the finest professionals in the industry."
Volkert is a privately-held employee-owned engineering firm founded in 1925. The company has a distinguished history in transportation infrastructure and has since grown its expertise in energy, water, and environmental markets. Stump expects to build on the company's four-dimensional market focus.
Volkert has its corporate office in Mobile, Alabama, with Volkert Global's corporate office in Franklin, Tennessee. The company surpassed 1,000 employees in mid-2017 and is now active in more than twenty states and Washington, DC, with more than 40 offices in North and South America. Volkert ranks 94 th among the Top 500 design firms in the United States, according to Engineering News-Record (2017).
For media inquiries, please contact:
Michael Deas, Director of Communications and Public Relations, Volkert, Inc.
Tel. 615.656.1845 x3411 | Email michael.deas@volkert.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/volkert-incs-perry-hand-names-jerry-stump-new-ceo-in-strategic-succession-plan-300582067.html
SOURCE Volkert, Inc.