DALLAS, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- REIX Corporation, owner of leading data and software platforms for the commercial real estate industry in the United States and Latin America, announced today the completion of its Series A capital raise with minority investments from Altus Group Limited (TSX:AIF), Real Capital Analytics, Inc. and a consortium of family office entities. In conjunction with this transaction, industry veteran Douglas Prickett was named as the Global CEO of REIX and will oversee the continued development and expansion of its Mango REIX™ and SiiLA™ products.
"This deal is a rare opportunity to partner with both RCA, the leading provider of global capital markets data and Altus Group which has the breadth to cover the top end of the institutional real estate marketplace with industry leading products such as ARGUS Enterprise™," said Douglas Prickett. "We are excited to innovate and collaborate alongside such giants in our industry."
"Partnering with REIX and RCA is in perfect alignment with our mission of delivering best-in-class real estate data, services, and technology solutions to our clients," said Robert Courteau, CEO of Altus Group, Ltd. "We are excited for the additional ways this partnership will leverage the analytical capabilities of ARGUS Enterprise™ in helping clients manage their real estate investments."
Commenting on the transaction, Robert White, Jr., founder and President of Real Capital Analytics, Inc. said, "We are glad to be making a follow on investment in this venture. Since our first investment in June 2016, we have recognized numerous synergies from our partnership such as expanded data sets and customer efficiencies in the data collection process. We are also excited to watch our data come alive in state-of-the-art analytics and reporting products."
About REIX Corporation
REIX Corporation is family of Cloud-based data solutions created for the commercial real estate industry. Headquartered in Dallas, Texas, REIX products have been adopted by some of the world's largest institutional owners of commercial real estate. Its two main products are Mango REIX™, an Enterprise data curation platform, and SiiLA™, the leading data, analytics, and networking platform for the commercial real estate industry in Latin America. For more information, visit: www.reixcorp.com
Media Contact:
Elizabeth Hammond
Director of Marketing
REIX Corporation
304-415-1477
About Altus Group Limited
Altus Group Limited is a leading provider of independent advisory services, software and data solutions to the global commercial real estate industry. Our businesses, Altus Analytics and Altus Expert Services, reflect decades of experience, a range of expertise, and technology-enabled capabilities. Our solutions empower clients to analyze, gain insight and recognize value on their real estate investments. Headquartered in Canada, we have approximately 2,500 employees around the world, with operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Our clients include some of the world's largest real estate industry participants. Altus Group pays a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share and our shares are traded on the TSX under the symbol AIF.
For more information on Altus Group, please visit: www.altusgroup.com .
Media Contact:
Ali Mahdavi
Investor Relations
Altus Group Limited
416-641-9710
About Real Capital Analytics, Inc.
Real Capital Analytics, Inc. (RCA) is the authority on the deals, the players and the trends that drive the commercial real estate investment markets. Covering all markets globally, RCA delivers timely and reliable data with unique insight into market participants, pricing and capital flows. The most active investors, lenders and advisors depend on RCA's market intelligence to formulate strategy and to source, underwrite and execute deals. An industry pioneer since 2000, RCA has offices in New York, San Jose, London and Singapore. For more information, visit: www.rcanalytics.com
Media Contact:
Mark Bell
Vice President of Marketing
Real Capital Analytics, Inc.
646-395-2038
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/reix-corporation-completes-series-a-capital-raise-with-altus-group-and-real-capital-analytics-300579064.html
SOURCE REIX Corporation