SACRAMENTO, California, January 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
RiceBran Technologies (NASDAQ: RIBT and RIBTW) (the "Company" or "RBT" or "we"), a global leader in the production and marketing of value added products derived from rice bran, announced today that the Company has appointed its Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Brent Rystrom, to the additional position of Chief Operating Officer (COO).
Rystrom, who joined the Company as CFO in 2017, will assume the additional role of overseeing the Company's operations effective immediately.
"Brent has made significant contributions as CFO to RBT's financial performance, in terms of delivering shareholder value through debt reduction, strategic investment and divestiture of non-core assets," said Robert Smith, CEO of RiceBran Technologies. "With a talented team now in place to support that position, including our recently appointed Chief Accounting Officer, Brent is now able expand his focus as COO on supporting the Company's growth initiatives as well as setting in place best practices to ensure product reliability and service consistency to our growing customer base."
Commenting on his appointment, Rystrom said: "We have made significant strides over the past year to position the company for success while building shareholder value and I now see even greater opportunity to add value to our future by focusing on operational excellence to support our growing food and animal nutrition ingredients customer base. By achieving our goal of providing the highest quality ingredient products on a consistent basis while delivering outstanding customer service to our clients, we can build a valuable business for our shareholders in the years to come."
About RiceBran Technologies
RiceBran Technologies is a food, animal nutrition, and specialty ingredient company focused on the procurement, bio-refining and marketing of numerous products derived from rice bran. RiceBran Technologies has proprietary and patented intellectual property that allows us to convert rice bran, one of the world's most underutilized food sources, into a number of highly nutritious food, animal nutrition and specialty ingredient products. Our global target markets are food and animal nutrition manufacturers and retailers, as well as specialty food, functional food and nutritional supplement manufacturers and retailers. More information can be found in the Company's filings with the SEC and by visiting our website at http://www.ricebrantech.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements about RiceBran Technologies' expectations regarding the growth of its U.S.-based ingredients business. These statements are made based upon current expectations that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. RiceBran Technologies does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this news release to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking information. Assumptions and other information that could cause results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking information can be found in RiceBran Technologies' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent periodic reports.
Investor Contact:
Ascendant Partners, LLC
Richard Galterio
+1(732)410-9810
rich@ascendantpartnersllc.com
SOURCE RiceBran Technologies