NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Crunch Fitness Franchise announced today that its Connecticut-based franchisee, Fitness Holdings LLC, has acquired Boost Fitness, the largest independent fitness chain in Central Massachusetts. The acquisition increases the number of Crunch locations in Massachusetts five-fold, growing the club base from two clubs to ten in the Boston area.
The eight Boost fitness centers, located in Auburn, Oxford, Fitchburg, Franklin, Hudson, Tewksbury, Westford and Worcester, were converted to Crunch Fitness clubs and began operating under the Crunch brand on January 1, 2018.
The deal nearly doubles the number of Fitness Holdings clubs, bringing the total club count to 18, with 80,000 members across Massachusetts and the Tri-State area. As part of the acquisition, Mark Federico, who founded Boost Fitness in 2005, will join Fitness Holdings as a partner.
According to Fitness Holdings, LLC partner Steve Viscardi, "The Boost acquisition represents a unique opportunity to provide our existing and new members with the high quality, affordable fitness experience Crunch is known for. We look forward to working with Mark, and his 15 plus years of experience, as we move into new markets and further accelerate our growth."
The acquisition fast tracks Crunch's aggressive growth for the Eastern U.S., as Fitness Holdings plans to open more than 50 Crunch gyms from Boston to Philadelphia over the next four years.
To find out more about the acquisition, visit www.crunch.com/locations .
Crunch is a gym that believes in making serious exercise fun by fusing fitness and entertainment and pioneering a philosophy of No Judgments. Crunch serves a fitness community for all types of people, with all types of goals, exercising all different ways; working it out at the same place together. Today, we are renowned for creating one-of-a-kind group fitness classes and unique programming for our wildly diverse members. Headquartered in New York City, Crunch serves over 1,100,000 members with over 220 gyms worldwide in 24 states, Puerto Rico and 4 countries. Crunch is rapidly expanding across the U.S. and around the globe.
Fitness Holdings, LLC , a joint venture with RLB Holdings, was created in 2012 in order to launch a network of Crunch gyms across the northeastern United States. In that time, Fitness Holdings, LLC has built, owned and operated 18 fitness locations totaling over 80,000 members in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts. The Greenwich, Conn. based company led all Connecticut companies on 2017's Inc. 5000 list of the fastest-growing companies, also appearing as the number 349 overall company and number 22 for consumer products and services.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/crunch-fitness-franchisee-fitness-holdings-llc-acquires-boost-fitness-expands-across-massachusetts-300579432.html
SOURCE Crunch