DALLAS, January 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
North American Cannabis Holdings, Inc. (USOTC: USMJ) today announced the company is close to finalizing deal terms on target acquisitions in California and Canada. The update today follows the company's recent announcements on parallel negotiations to acquire operations in both California and Canada to expand the company's business in the two legal recreational marijuana markets. As of January 1st, 2018, California has legalized recreational marijuana and Canada is scheduled to have legal recreational marijuana in July of this year. A meeting is planned in California before the end of January to finalize terms for an acquisition. A meeting is also planned in February in Canada to finalize terms.
North American Cannabis Holdings has published an online presentation on its strategy to be prepared for operations in Canada and California. The presentation is available online at aciconglomerated.com :
McDonald ' s of Dispensari e s; Sun Maid Raisi ns of Growers; Splenda of Extracts
Learn more about USMJ by visiting: http://www.aciconglomerated.com/
Disclaimer/Safe Harbor: This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. The statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events that involve risks and uncertainties. Among others, these risks include the expectation that any of the companies mentioned herein will achieve significant sales, the failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of the companies' contracts, the companies' liquidity position, the companies' ability to obtain new contracts, the emergence of competitors with greater financial resources and the impact of competitive pricing. In the light of these uncertainties, the forward-looking events referred to in this release might not occur. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
ACI, USMJ and PURA contact info:
Steven Rash
info@aciconglomerated.com
+1-800-861-1350
https://www.aciconglomerated.com/contact/
+1-303-919-4171
SOURCE North American Cannabis Holdings, Inc.