Lori Tinkler now CEO of the U.S. credentialing board for respiratory care practitioners
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The National Board for Respiratory Care, Inc. (NBRC) has named Lori M. Tinkler, MBA, as chief executive officer effective January 1, 2018. Tinkler has a 26+ year tenure with the organization and succeeds Gary A. Smith, who served in various leadership roles during his 34 years with the NBRC, including his position as CEO for the last 16 years.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005323/en/
Lori M. Tinkler, MBA, Chief Executive Officer National Board for Respiratory Care (Photo: Business Wire)
Tinkler joined the NBRC in 1991 and served as chief operating officer since 2002. She also led and helped grow the NBRC subsidiary, Applied Measurement Professionals, Inc. (AMP), a national assessment company. Since the sale of AMP in 2015, the NBRC has focused solely on its mission of developing high-quality examinations and awarding credentials for the respiratory care profession.
“Without reservation I know Lori’s vast knowledge of respiratory care leadership across professional organizations makes her not only the best choice, but peerless in her abilities,” said NBRC Immediate Past President, Robert Joyner.
NBRC President Katherine Fedor agrees: “Lori’s detailed knowledge of the organization will provide a smooth transition of leadership and preserve the NBRC’s mission of excellence.”
In 2008, Tinkler was named one of the Top 25 Women Who Mean Business in Kansas City by the Kansas City Business Journal. Tinkler volunteers on several local boards, including the Johnson County Community College Foundation and the Mayor’s Christmas Tree Fund for the City of Olathe (Kan.), which she chaired for the 2016-17 campaign. Tinkler chaired the Olathe Chamber of Commerce in 2011 and 2012, and remains active as a mentor for young professionals within the greater Kansas City business community.
“There are many opportunities ahead for the respiratory care profession, and I am thrilled to lead the NBRC into the future,” said Tinkler. “We have a great team of talented individuals who will continue to provide excellent customer service and create and innovate to ensure the competency of respiratory care professionals.”
About the NBRC
Established in 1960 and headquartered in the Kansas City area since 1974, the NBRC is the credentialing board for U.S. respiratory care practitioners. As a member of the Institute for Credentialing Excellence (ICE) and accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA), the NBRC ensures the highest standards for credentialing examinations. Nearly 30,000 candidates test for NBRC credentials each year.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005323/en/
NBRC
Cari Turner, 913-712-0286
Source: NBRC