NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- D.A. Davidson & Co. announced today that Brian Fitzgerald has joined the Equity Capital Markets group as a Managing Director, Institutional Sales. Fitzgerald represents another key addition to the firm as D.A. Davidson continues expanding its New York equity sales and trading teams.
“Brian has the right combination of deep expertise and strong relationships that make him an excellent fit with our client-centric culture,” said Brit Stephens , Head of Sales, Trading and Capital Markets. “We are excited to welcome Brian to our team as we begin 2018 and look forward to his contributions in driving our firm’s visibility and growth.”
Fitzgerald joins D.A. Davidson with a strong background in equity sales, most recently serving as Head of Middle Market Sales for SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in New York. He previously was Head of the Emerging Managers Group with Cowen & Company and Head of Equity Research Sales with CRT Capital. Fitzgerald brings over 25 years of industry experience to the D.A. Davidson team.
D.A. Davidson & Co.’s Equity Capital Markets group provides capital markets services and products that include investment banking, institutional sales, trading, research and corporate services. The firm’s industry-driven research team offers award-winning research and is supported by a dedicated group of sales and trading professionals.
About D.A. Davidson Companies
D.A. Davidson Companies is an employee-owned financial services firm offering a range of financial services and advice to individuals, corporations, institutions and municipalities nationwide. Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Montana, with corporate offices in Denver, Los Angeles, Portland and Seattle, the company has more than 1,300 employees and offices in 24 states.
Subsidiaries include: D.A. Davidson & Co., the largest full-service investment firm headquartered in the Northwest, providing wealth management, investment banking, equity and fixed income capital markets services and advice; Davidson Investment Advisors, a professional asset management firm; D.A. Davidson Trust Company, a trust and wealth management company; and Davidson Fixed Income Management, a registered investment adviser providing fixed income portfolio and advisory services.
For more information, visit dadavidson.com or Twitter: @DADavidsonCo .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005886/en/
Prosek for D.A. Davidson
Katherine Fox, 212-279-3115, x294
kfox@prosek.com
or
D.A. Davidson
Jacquie Burchard, 406-791-7465
Cell: 406-868-1392
jburchard@dadco.com
Source: D.A. Davidson Companies