MAYFIELD HEIGHTS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Materion Corporation (NYSE:MTRN) has announced the appointment of Marc Rands as Vice President, Global Operations, a new position reporting to the CEO.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005228/en/
Marc Rands, Vice President, Global Operations (Photo: Business Wire)
Mr. Rands joins Materion from Honeywell International Inc., where he served as Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain for Honeywell UOP, a $2.7 billion Performance Materials and Technology business. Mr. Rands had full responsibility for 14 plants in the U.S., Europe, China and Malaysia, and also supported two joint ventures in Japan along with several tolling operations in the U.S. and China.
“I am pleased to announce the appointment of Marc to fill this key new position. Marc brings a track record of results in manufacturing, logistics, quality, health and safety, and continuous improvement. In this new role, he will be responsible for developing a One Materion Operations function. Marc will work across the organization to drive peak operating efficiencies, leveraging synergies and best practices among all our facilities worldwide. He will build on and strengthen supply chain, logistics, quality and EH&S capabilities,” said Jugal Vijayvargiya, Materion President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Rands is a graduate of the University of Arkansas with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering. He is a certified Six Sigma Black Belt.
Materion Corporation is headquartered in Mayfield Heights, Ohio. The Company, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, supplies highly engineered advanced enabling materials to global markets. Products include precious and non-precious specialty metals, inorganic chemicals and powders, specialty coatings, specialty engineered beryllium alloys, beryllium and beryllium composites, and engineered clad and plated metal systems.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005228/en/
Materion Corporation
Investor Contact:
Stephen F. Shamrock, 216-383-4010
stephen.shamrock@materion.com
or
Media Contact:
Patrick S. Carpenter, 216-383-6835
patrick.carpenter@materion.com
or
http://www.materion.com
Mayfield Hts-g
Source: Materion Corporation