ATLANTA, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Call2Recycle, Inc., North America's first and largest consumer battery stewardship organization, announced today that Susan Repo, the Corporate Treasurer and Vice President of Finance at Tesla, Inc., will be joining the organization's United States Board of Directors.
At Tesla, Ms. Repo is responsible for shaping and building capital structure, including liquidity and liability profiles to scale with the world's largest hyper-growth sustainable energy company. With more than 20 years of experience in the law and finance, she's served as a leader of strategic initiatives across tax and trade globally focused on domestic and international growth, productivity and profitability. Her experience with Tesla, in particular, aligns with Call2Recycle's commitment to product stewardship and sustainable practices.
"Susan's ability to drive growth, increase efficiency and transform operations make her an ideal fit for our board," said Carl Smith, CEO and President of Call2Recycle, Inc. "In an economy that will increasingly depend on battery systems with the growth of the renewables industry, battery recycling will become all the more relevant. We're excited to engage Susan's unique industry experience and look forward to having her join our team."
In addition to her work at Tesla, Repo led Juniper Networks, Inc. as the Senior Director of International Tax for three years. She also serves on the Board of Directors for Tesla's subsidiaries globally.
"Clean, renewable energy and sustainability are passions of mine, so I am thrilled to join the board of the U.S.' premier battery recycling organization," said Susan Repo. "Call2Recycle's first principles of efficiency, transparency and commitment to the environment align with my core values. I am eager to work with this dedicated team to elevate product stewardship and battery recycling across North America."
Call2Recycle offers more than 14,000 public drop-off sites where consumers can recycle their batteries at no cost. Since 1996, the organization has set a record of more than 130 million lbs. (59 million kgs) in collections. To find a local drop-off site for battery recycling, visit Call2Recycle's locator .
About Call2Recycle, Inc.
Call2Recycle, Inc. , is committed to protecting and preserving the environment through collecting and recycling consumer batteries and cell phones. Founded in 1994, the not-for-profit organization works on behalf of stakeholders to provide its battery recycling program to consumers across the U.S. and Canada. Visit call2recycle.org . Follow at Facebook , Twitter or LinkedIn .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tesla-executive-appointed-to-call2recycles-board-of-directors-300584802.html
SOURCE Call2Recycle, Inc.