BELLEVUE, Wash., Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) will report its fourth quarter and full year 2017 results for the period ended December 31, 2017 on Thursday, February 8, 2018 via an earnings release and accompanying webcast. These items will be available in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at http://ir.expediainc.com . The earnings release will post after market close and the webcast will begin at 1:30 PM Pacific Time / 4:30 PM Eastern Time. A replay of the call is expected to be available for at least three months.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) is the world's largest online travel company, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes leading online travel brands, such as:
Expedia.com ®, a leading full-service online travel brand with localized sites in 33 countries Hotels.com ®, a leading global lodging expert operating 90 localized websites in 41 languages with its award winning Hotels.com® Rewards loyalty program Expedia® Affiliate Network (EAN) , a global B2B brand that powers the hotel business of hundreds of leading airlines, travel agencies, loyalty and corporate travel companies plus several top consumer brands through its API and template solutions trivago ®, a leading online hotel search platform with sites in 55 countries worldwide HomeAway ®, a global online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, which also includes the VRBO ®, VacationRentals.com ® and BedandBreakfast.com ® brands, among other Egencia ®, a leading corporate travel management company Orbitz ® and CheapTickets ®, leading U.S. travel websites, as well as ebookers ®, a full-service travel brand with websites in seven European countries Travelocity ®, a leading online travel brand in the U.S. and Canada delivering customer service when and where our customers need it with the Customer First Guarantee Hotwire ®, inspiring spontaneous travel through Hot Rate® deals Wotif Group , a leading portfolio of travel brands including Wotif.com ®, Wotif.co.nz , lastminute.com.au ®, lastminute.co.nz and travel.com.au ® Expedia® Media Solutions , the advertising sales division of Expedia, Inc. that builds creative media partnerships and enables brand advertisers to target a highly-qualified audience of travel consumers CarRentals.com ™, a premier online car rental booking company with localized sites in 13 countries Classic Vacations ®, a top luxury travel specialist Expedia Local Expert ®, a provider of online and in-market concierge services, activities, experiences and ground transportation in over a thousand destinations worldwide Expedia® CruiseShipCenters ®, a provider of exceptional value and expert advice for travelers booking cruises and vacations through its network of over 240 retail travel agency franchises across North America SilverRail Technologies, Inc. , provider of a global rail retail and distribution platform connecting rail carriers and suppliers to both online and offline travel distributors
For corporate and industry news and views, visit us at www.expediainc.com or follow us on Twitter @expediainc .
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. © 2018 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/expedia-inc-to-webcast-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-results-on-february-8-2018-300587858.html
SOURCE Expedia, Inc.