DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- UDR, Inc. (the “Company”) (NYSE: UDR ) announced today that the Company’s former Chairman of the Board, CEO and President, John P. McCann, recently passed away.
Mr. McCann served in various capacities within and external to UDR throughout his extensive real estate career and was a pioneer of the real estate investment trust (“REIT”) era. Most notably, Mr. McCann served as CEO of UDR for 27 years, paving the way for the Company’s success for years to come.
Throughout his career, Mr. McCann’s vision, hands-on approach, business acumen, philanthropic activities and leadership have been influential forces within the REIT industry. During his tenure as Chair of NAREIT, Mr. McCann formed many relationships across the REIT industry, and, afterwards, continued to serve as educator to and mentor for many REIT professionals throughout his life.
“We are deeply saddened by John’s passing,” UDR’s Chairman and CEO Tom Toomey said. “He was a true gentleman and an inspiring mentor, colleague and friend to myself and those at UDR. He treated all UDR associates like family, often taking a personal interest in their careers and lives outside of the Company. John was a preeminent figure in the REIT industry and had a profound impact on it and its people, during, and after his long tenure as UDR’s leader. Our thoughts are with the McCann family. He will be greatly missed but never forgotten.”
About UDR, Inc.
UDR, Inc. (NYSE: UDR ), an S&P 500 company, is a leading multifamily real estate investment trust with a demonstrated performance history of delivering superior and dependable returns by successfully managing, buying, selling, developing and redeveloping attractive real estate properties in targeted U.S. markets. As of September 30, 2017, UDR owned or had an ownership position in 50,127 apartment homes including 2,935 homes under development or in its Developer Capital Program. For over 45 years, UDR has delivered long-term value to shareholders, the best standard of service to residents and the highest quality experience for associates.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006434/en/
UDR, Inc.
Chris Van Ens, 720-348-7762
cvanens@udr.com
Source: UDR, Inc.