NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Altus Global Trade Solutions, a technology enabled business process outsourcing (BPO) firm, today announced that it has hired Christina Reed as marketing director. Reed will be responsible for supporting the growth of the firm and expanding market reach through technology driven strategies.
"Christina has an extensive background in enhancing client experiences and relationships. Altus is excited to integrate her expertise to assure the highest benchmark is set for our customer experience," says Tom Brenan, IV, president Altus Global Trade Solutions. "As Altus continues to develop cutting-edge BPO solutions, Christina's leadership and contributions show Altus' commitment to bring the best solutions and experience possible. She is a great addition to our executive team."
Reed has over 20 years of business-to-business marketing leadership, sales and operations experience at telecommunications firms CenturyLink, Qwest Communications, Intermedia and CapRock Communications. She has developed joint marketing campaigns with globally recognized technology firms such as Nokia, HPE, Cisco and Juniper. She holds a bachelor of science degree from the University of New Orleans and has served as a volunteer and board member for multiple organizations serving the community.
"Altus is a market leading BPO firm with an innovative and empowering culture. We have many women at Altus in leadership roles and I'm proud to join them," says Christina Reed, marketing director at Altus. "Additionally, I am thrilled to bring robust marketing strategies that ensure the market has access to our world-class BPO solutions delivered with an exceptional customer experience."
About Altus Global Trade Solutions
Altus Global Trade Solutions is a technology enabled BPO firm helping leading companies gain new levels of confidence and control over their credit to cash cycle. We combine the most advanced technology with the largest international network of trained, certified professionals to streamline first and third-party asset recovery at the highest levels of security and compliance. Backed by our world-class ARM Managed Services Team, we gather and analyze rich insights and best practices at every step to continuously improve and enhance your entire receivables management process in ways you can see, feel and measure. For more information, visit www.trustaltus.com or connect with us on LinkedIn.
Contact: Christina Reed, Altus
Phone: 480-553-8309
Email: christinareed@trustaltus.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/altus-global-trade-solutions-expands-leadership-team-with-tech-marketing-executive-300589658.html
SOURCE Altus Global Trade Solutions