SAN DIEGO, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC: MJNA), the first publicly traded cannabis company in the United States, today announced that its Chief Marketing Officer Stephen Jones has been promoted to President of the Company's subsidiary HempMeds®. Jones will also remain in his dual role as Chief Marketing Officer of Medical Marijuana, Inc.
Jones, who joined Medical Marijuana, Inc. in September 2017, has nearly 20 years of experience in the direct sales, finance, and international logistics industries. A native of Sheffield, England, Stephen holds a B.A. in Business & Marketing from Sheffield Hallam University and currently manages the creation, development and execution of the long-term strategic brand marketing goals across the different products and brands.
"We are excited to have Mr. Jones step up and take on more responsibility in the Company and continue to provide insightful creative and strategic direction," said Medical Marijuana, Inc. CEO Dr. Stuart Titus. "Since joining our organization, he has helped the Company find a clear brand voice and we think that HempMeds® can definitely benefit from this type of leadership."
HempMeds® was the first company to ever bring hemp-based cannabidiol (CBD) oil products to market in the U.S. in 2012 -- and the first to both make CBD products available in bulk for U.S. consumers and also provide high-quality CBD hemp oil to customers around the world. HempMeds® was also the first-ever company to received historic federal government import approvals for its CBD products in the nations of Brazil, Mexico and Paraguay.
In his new role, Jones will oversee all facets of the HempMeds® organization, focusing on continued growth and international market expansion. Jones, who has experience in product development and marketing, plans to launch innovative new product offerings and help gain and maintain product registrations in many Latin American and European countries.
"I'm absolutely thrilled about this new leadership opportunity within the Medical Marijuana, Inc. portfolio of companies," said Jones. "HempMeds is a company with a rich background as one of the companies that helped create the hemp CBD industry, and has helped people all over the world with our innovative product lines. I'm excited to play a role in strengthening the HempMeds® brand and continuing to develop the Company as the market for CBD products continues to expand across the globe."
About HempMeds®
HempMeds ® is a corporate portfolio company of Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC PINK:MJNA) and the Company's exclusive master distributor and contracted marketing company, handling sales and distribution.
About Medical Marijuana, Inc.
We are a company of firsts®. Our mission is to be the premier cannabis and hemp industry innovators, leveraging our team of professionals to source, evaluate and purchase value-added companies and products, while allowing them to keep their integrity and entrepreneurial spirit. We strive to create awareness within our industry, develop environmentally-friendly, economically sustainable businesses, while increasing shareholder value. For details on Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s portfolio and investment companies, visit www.medicalmarijuanainc.com .
To see Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s corporate video, click here .
Shareholders and consumers are also encouraged to buy CBD oil and other products at Medical Marijuana, Inc.'s shop .
FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLAIMER
This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements and information, as defined within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is subject to the Safe Harbor created by those sections. This material contains statements about expected future events and/or financial results that are forward-looking in nature and subject to risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements by definition involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Medical Marijuana, Inc. to be materially different from the statements made herein.
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) DISCLOSURE
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, treat or cure any disease.
LEGAL DISCLOSURE
Medical Marijuana, Inc. does not sell or distribute any products that are in violation of the United States Controlled Substances Act (US.CSA). These companies do grow, sell, and distribute hemp-based products and are involved with the federally legal distribution of medical marijuana-based products within certain international markets. Cannabidiol is a natural constituent of hemp oil.
CONTACT:
Public Relations Contact:
Andrew Hard
Chief Executive Officer CMW Media
P. 888-829- 0070
andrew.hard@cmwmedia.com
www.cmwmedia.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/medical-marijuana-inc-announces-promotion-of-chief-marketing-officer-stephen-jones-to-president-of-subsidiary-hempmeds-300580581.html
SOURCE Medical Marijuana, Inc.