MMCC Launches Search for New Leadership
CALABASAS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Marcus & Millichap (NYSE: MMI) announced today that William E. Hughes, senior vice president and head of the company’s financing division Marcus & Millichap Capital Corp. (MMCC), is transitioning into retirement.
“For more than 20 years Bill has worked tirelessly to build our financing services, support our professionals, and contribute to the firm’s overall growth,” says Hessam Nadji, president and CEO of Marcus & Millichap. “As a long-standing member of the senior management team, Bill has played a significant role in shaping the direction of MMCC and the firm in general.”
Hughes will continue to oversee MMCC until new leadership is in place. Once his replacement is selected and oriented, Hughes will remain an active advisor for some time to ensure a seamless leadership transition. “Financing represents a critical and exciting growth opportunity for MMI,” notes Nadji. “We expect Bill’s successor to accelerate MMCC’s growth and its capital markets capabilities.”
MMCC is a subsidiary of Marcus & Millichap (NYSE: MMI). Through its network of national, regional and local lenders, MMCC provides capital markets products for all major investment property types. In the 12 months ending September 30, 2017, the division closed 1,649 commercial real estate financing transactions totaling $5.29 billion. To learn more, please visit: www.mmCapCorp.com .
About Marcus & Millichap (NYSE: MMI)
With over 1,700 investment sales and financing professionals located throughout the United States and Canada, Marcus & Millichap is a leading specialist in commercial real estate investment sales, financing, research and advisory services. Founded in 1971, the firm closed nearly 9,000 transactions in 2016 with a value of approximately $42.3 billion. The company has perfected a powerful system for marketing properties that combines investment specialization, local market expertise, the industry’s most comprehensive research, state-of-the-art technology, and relationships with the largest pool of qualified investors. To learn more, please visit: www.MarcusMillichap.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122005301/en/
Marcus & Millichap
Gina Relva, Public Relations Director
(925) 953-1716
Source: Marcus & Millichap