MONACO, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Navios Maritime Containers Inc. (“Navios Containers”) (N-OTC:NMCI), a growth vehicle dedicated to the container sector, announced that it has acquired the Navios Felicitas, a 2010-built, 4,360 TEU containership for a purchase price of $11.45 million. The vessel was delivered to Navios Containers’ fleet in December 2017.
Navios Containers financed the acquisition of the vessel with cash on its balance sheet and $6.0 million of bank debt under one of its existing credit facilities.
Fleet Update
Following this acquisition, Navios Containers controls 21 vessels, totaling 88,820 TEU.
About Navios Maritime Containers Inc.
Navios Maritime Containers Inc. is a growth vehicle dedicated to the container sector of the maritime industry. For more information, please visit our website at www.navios-containers.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning future events; future vessel acquisitions and entering into further time charters. Words such as “may”, “expects”, “intends”, “plans”, “believes”, “anticipates”, “hopes”, “estimates”, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on the information available to, and the expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by Navios Containers at the time these statements were made. Although Navios Containers believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. These statements involve known and unknown risks and are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates which are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of Navios Containers. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the quality of the Fleet and the market for the Fleet vessels, and changes in the availability and costs of funding due to conditions in the bank market, capital markets and other factors, as well as general domestic and international political conditions. Navios Containers expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Navios Containers’ expectations with respect thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based. Navios Containers makes no prediction or statement about the performance of its common shares.
Public & Investor Relations Contact:
Navios Maritime Containers Inc.
+1.212.906.8648
Investors@navios-containers.com
Source:Navios Maritime Containers Inc.