HAYWARD, Calif., Jan. 08, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:ANTH) is pleased to announce the results of the Special Meeting of Stockholders held on January 5, 2018. Shareholders approved all of the proposed business matters which included: (i) approval of the second closing of Anthera’s October 2017 private placement of equity securities (“PIPE”) transaction bringing total gross proceeds to $15 million; (ii) approval of the 2018 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; (iii) approval of the amendment to the 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and (iv) ratification of the appointment of BDO USA, LLP as Anthera’s independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. Anthera expects to complete the second closing of the PIPE transaction on or about January 9, 2018.
About Anthera Pharmaceuticals
Anthera Pharmaceuticals is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing products to treat serious and life-threatening diseases, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and B-cell associated renal diseases. Additional information on Anthera can be found at www.anthera.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
Any statements contained in this press release that refer to future events or other non-historical matters, including statements that are preceded by, followed by, or that include such words as "estimate," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "goal," "expect," "project," or similar statements, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on Anthera's expectations as of the date of this press release and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to those set forth in Anthera's public filings with the SEC, including Anthera's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Anthera disclaims any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
CONTACT:
Investor Relations of Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ir@anthera.com
For Media Inquiries:
Frannie Marmorstein, 305-567-0821
frannie.marmorstein@rbbcommunications.com
www.twitter.com/antherapharma
https://www.facebook.com/antherapharma/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/anthera-pharmaceuticals
Source: Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc .
Source:Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc.