4 COMMENTS Senate expected to have votes to end government shutdown U.S. stocks climb to session highs Banks lead European stocks higher U.S. stocks rose to fresh highs Monday after Senate leaders said they reached a deal to end the federal government shutdown.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 72 points, or 0.3%, to 26144. The S&P 500 climbed 0.4% and the Nasdaq Composite rose 0.7%, with all three indexes heading toward record closes.
Investors had largely shrugged off the shutdown, which began after the Senate rejected a one-month spending bill late Friday night. U.S. government bonds inched lower Monday afternoon, while the WSJ Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against a basket of 16 other currencies, ticked down 0.1%.
Economic growth around the world has been solid, helping stocks keep powering higher, even after Congress came to a standstill over legislation in Washington.
“It’s a little hard to see lasting economic impacts or even particularly durable market impacts from previous shutdowns,” said Larry Hatheway, group chief economist at GAM Holding.
Dusk falls on the U.S. Capitol as lawmakers work to end the government shutdown in Washington, D.C. Photo: scalzo/EPA/Shutterstock In the seven other shutdowns that occurred in the past 35 years, the S&P 500 on average rose in the week leading up to the shutdown and then subsequently slipped four of seven times, with declines averaging 1% over a three-day period, according to Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CFRA Research. However, the S&P 500 then took less than two weeks to get back to break-even, he noted.
Broad gains across sectors helped offset a decline in shares of industrial and materials companies on Monday.
Shares of energy companies in the S&P 500 rose 1.4%, following U.S. crude-oil prices higher. Halliburton Co., Noble Energy Inc. and Schlumberger NV added more than 2% apiece.
Reports of corporate deals swung individual stocks, with Sanofi shares falling 2.9% after the French drugmaker said Monday that it would buy hemophilia drugmaker Bioverativ Inc. for more than $11.5 billion.
Elsewhere, the Stoxx Europe 600 edged up 0.3%, boosted by a rise in shares of oil and gas companies and banks.
Shares of UBS Group lagged behind, however, falling 1.2% after the Swiss bank said charges related to the U.S. corporate tax overhaul pushed it into a fourth-quarter loss .
Earlier, Asian stocks showed little reaction to the partial U.S. shutdown. Japan’s Nikkei Stock Average was flat while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.4% to another record close.
Shares of some Apple suppliers declined across the region, however, dragging down some tech-heavy indexes.
South Korea’s Kospi fell 0.7% amid a 2.2% drop in shares of index heavyweight Samsung Electronics . The company’s stock fell against a backdrop of increased caution over demand for rival Apple’s most expensive iPhone.
—Kenan Machado and Harriet Torry contributed to this article.
Write to Riva Gold at riva.gold@wsj.com and Akane Otani at akane.otani@wsj.com