NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Shutterstock, Inc. (NYSE: SSTK), a leading global technology company offering a creative platform for high-quality assets, tools and services, today announced that it has licensed more than 1 billion royalty free images, videos and music tracks across all of its businesses. Shutterstock was founded in 2003 and this milestone reflects licenses granted over the past 14 years. Shutterstock's library now offers more than 170 million commercial images, 40 million editorial images and 9 million video clips.
Shutterstock licenses more than 5.5 images every second directly from its website and through innovative API integrations with companies such as Facebook, Google and Microsoft. Shutterstock not only empowers businesses, marketing agencies, media organizations and production companies around the world through its e-commerce and enterprise offerings, but also by seamlessly embedding into its customer's workflow, wherever that may be.
"Shutterstock's continued commitment to developing innovative technology, offering an unparalleled customer experience and providing high-quality content to customers globally has led to unique partnerships providing access to customers directly from the tools they use most often," said Jon Oringer, Founder and CEO of Shutterstock. "Reaching 1 billion licenses signifies the prominent role visual communications plays in media, advertising and film every day. I look forward to the next decade of technology advancements embedding Shutterstock everywhere, while continuing to enhance our creative platform helping customers best create and communicate their story."
Shutterstock has been a publicly traded company for over five years and to mark the sale of over 1 billion licenses, Shutterstock will ring the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, January 31st.
About Shutterstock, Inc.
Shutterstock, Inc. (NYSE: SSTK ), directly and through its group subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of high-quality licensed photographs , vectors , illustrations , videos and music to businesses, marketing agencies and media organizations around the world. Working with its growing community of over 300,000 contributors, Shutterstock adds hundreds of thousands of images each week, and currently has more than 170 million images and more than 9 million video clips available.
Headquartered in New York City, Shutterstock has offices around the world and customers in more than 150 countries. The company also owns Bigstock , a value-oriented stock media agency; Shutterstock Custom, a custom content creation platform ; Offset, a high-end image collection ; PremiumBeat a curated royalty-free music library; Rex Features, a premier source of editorial images for the world's media; and Webdam, a cloud-based digital asset management service for businesses.
For more information, please visit www.shutterstock.com and follow Shutterstock on Twitter and on Facebook .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shutterstock-celebrates-over-1-billion-image-video-and-music-licenses-sold-300590685.html
SOURCE Shutterstock, Inc.