CHICAGO, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Network of Executive Women has named seven new board members and a new board chair.
Lisa Walsh, chief executive officer of Carrollton, Texas-based Truco Enterprises, will be the women's leadership organization's new board chair, replacing Karen Stuckey, senior vice president, private brands general merchandise for Walmart, who will become immediate past chair.
Joining NEW's board of directors are: Tracey Brown, senior vice president of operations and customer experience for Sam's Club; Kelly Caruso, senior vice president, hardlines, at Target; Kendra Doyel, senior director, human resources for Ralph's Grocery Company and Food 4 Less/Food Co. at Kroger; Michelle Freyre, president of U.S. Beauty at Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.; Abbe Luersman, chief human resources officer for Ahold Delhaize; Kim Underhill, global president for Kimberly-Clark Professional; and Ena Williams, senior vice president and head of international at 7-Eleven Inc. The changes took effect January 1.
"These women represent the best of NEW — successful business leaders who are passionate about gender equality at work," NEW President and CEO Sarah Alter said. "We're especially privileged to have Lisa as our new board chair. Her willingness to take on this demanding role speaks volumes about her commitment to gender equality."
Partnership Chair Monica Turner, vice president, customer business development for Procter & Gamble, will serve as board vice chair. NEW board directors at-large taking on new roles are Dagmar Boggs, president, 7-Eleven Global Team, for The Coca-Cola Company, who will serve as audit chair; Nicola Johnson, principal, consumer and industrial products practice, Deloitte Consulting, now technology chair; and Beth Marrion, managing director, retail, at Accenture, who will serve as regional chair.
Continuing their terms on the NEW Board are: Treasurer Erby Foster Jr., CEO of Foster Inclusion; Secretary Regenia Stein, principal at Ingenuity Consulting; Transformation Chair Vicki Felker, vice president and general manager, Golden Products Division at Nestlé Purina PetCare; and Compensation Chair Karen Mooney, chief human resources officer for Keystone Foods. Returning to the NEW Board as directors at-large are: Dorria Ball, president and founder, Global Ballance Group, and Valerie Oswalt, president, U.S. sales, at Mondelēz International.
The Network of Executive Women represents more than 10,000 members and 21 regions in the U.S. and Canada. For more information about NEW and its advocacy, learning programs, events and research visit newonline.org or follow @newnational.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-names-7-executives-to-board-lisa-walsh-of-truco-enterprises-will-chair-300589351.html
SOURCE Network of Executive Women