NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Russell Reynolds Associates , a leading global search and leadership advisory firm, today announced that Tanmoy Jadhav has joined the firm as a member of the Technology Practice, where he will focus on digital transformation. Based in New York, Jadhav advises clients across a diverse range of industries, including in private equity and venture-backed companies.
Jadhav's expertise lies across the key levers of transformation—people, process and technology—with a particular emphasis on recruiting high-impact, innovative digital leaders.
"Tanmoy has worked globally with senior management teams on critical emerging digital technologies such as artificial intelligence and blockchain," said Constantine Alexandrakis, leader of Russell Reynolds Associates' U.S. Region. "With his deep knowledge of emerging technology trends and his experience leading large-scale international digital transformation efforts, we are excited for Tanmoy to pivot his expertise to helping our clients transform their leadership strategies as their business models evolve."
Prior to joining Russell Reynolds Associates, Jadhav was at Deloitte, where he was a Senior Manager in the Strategy, Innovation and Transformation Practice. In this role, he was responsible for helping clients harness emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain and IoT. Jadhav also co-led Deloitte's Blockchain Lab and worked extensively with the broader digital, fintech and blockchain ecosystems. Previously, he held a number of strategy and operations roles at Deloitte. Earlier in his career, Jadhav was part of the Financial Development Program at Cigna, where he held roles in corporate development and financial planning analysis. He also co-founded Alpha Commodities, where he was a Portfolio Manager and Trader.
Jadhav holds a B.A. in economics and political science from McMaster University and an M.S. in finance from the Carroll School of Management at Boston College.
About Russell Reynolds Associates
Russell Reynolds Associates is a global search and leadership advisory firm. Our 425+ consultants in 46 offices work with public, private and nonprofit organizations across all industries and regions. We help our clients build teams of transformational leaders who can meet today's challenges and anticipate the digital, economic and political trends that are reshaping the global business environment. From helping boards with their structure, culture and effectiveness to identifying, assessing and defining the best leadership for organizations – our teams bring their decades of expertise to help clients solve their most complex leadership issues. www.russellreynolds.com
Contact:
Vijaya Singh
Russell Reynolds Associates
212-351-1987
vijaya.singh@russellreynolds.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/russell-reynolds-associates-hires-tanmoy-jadhav-300579497.html
SOURCE Russell Reynolds Associates