PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) announced today that Kevin Erdahl has been promoted to second vice president of risk management for Employee Benefits Underwriting.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005034/en/
Kevin Erdahl, second vice president of risk management for Employee Benefits Underwriting at The Standard. (Photo: Business Wire)
Erdahl started at The Standard in 1994 as an associate underwriter in Employee Benefits. During his career at The Standard, Erdahl has assumed greater leadership roles and currently manages western region case underwriting team as well as medical underwriting department.
“Early in 2016, Kevin added our medical underwriting department to his responsibilities. He immediately immersed himself by learning everything he could about medical underwriting both here at The Standard and across the industry,” said Tom Foran, vice president of Underwriting and Product Development at The Standard. “He mapped out a strategy with his leaders and supported his team as they redesigned workflows and prioritized improvements with their IT partners.”
Erdahl received his Bachelor of Science in economics from Portland State University and a Master of Business Administration from Marylhurst University.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, Inc., StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005034/en/
The Standard
Bob Speltz, 971-321-3162
Senior Director, Public Affairs
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard