Best-in-Class Employee Management Company Continues Rapid Global Expansion
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Deputy , the ultimate employee management tool, today announced the appointment of Steven Power as Global President. A longtime senior executive with a proven track record of building and scaling highly successful technology companies, Power will launch initiatives around client growth, business culture and expanding Deputy’s global team.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005211/en/
Steven Power, Global President of Deputy (Photo: Business Wire)
With a presence in over 70 countries around the world combined with a client base ranging from SMBs to large organizations, counting Qantas, Crust Pizza, Messina and NASA as dedicated users of the platform, Deputy is positioned for vertical market penetration with its innovative employee management platform.
Power is a senior general management executive with a 20-year proven track record of building highly successful technology companies. He has extensive executive leadership experience rapidly scaling high growth U.S. and global SaaS, ecommerce and digital media organizations.
Prior to joining Deputy, Power worked in an executive leadership capability for several high-profile publicly listed and venture-backed organizations, including: CCO at Australian startup Catapult Sports (ASX:CAT), EVP at Web.com (NASDAQ:WEB), President at Yodle, President at BigCommerce, and Founder and CEO of ReachLocal’s Australian Operation.
“I feel privileged to be offered the opportunity to bring my global experiences to a startup born in my homeland. When I first met with the Deputy leadership team, we connected instantly. Deputy’s mission embodies everything I strongly believe in, technology that has a significant impact and improves lives,” said Power.
“I have already witnessed the transformational impact of Deputy on businesses and their employees. But what strikes me is the untapped potential. There’s still too many businesses putting pen to paper and wasting time on labor intensive tasks. I can’t wait to help get Deputy’s tools into their hands, too,” said Power.
“Steven joins Deputy at an exciting time. We’re about to take our product to the next level and his appointment will help get our tools into the hands of businesses globally. He not only brings local knowledge, having worked with Australian startups, but has led some leading US tech companies through rapid expansion,” said Ashik Ahmed, CEO, CTO and co-founder of Deputy.
“As we enter into the next phase of growth, it is imperative for us to have a fearless leader with the right mix of experience to guide Deputy forward. Steven is undoubtedly that leader,” said Ahmed.
With 60,000 businesses utilizing the platform, Deputy has paved the way for rapid global expansion. Deputy completed a successful Series A fundraising effort in February 2017 and has focused their new capital investment on increasing the growth of the global support team and product development, rapidly growing Deputy’s team across offices in Atlanta, Sydney, Los Angeles, the United Kingdom and the Philippines. This month, Deputy announced new North American headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, where it plans to contribute its momentum to Atlanta becoming one of the nation's tech hubs.
About Deputy
Deputy is the ultimate tool for simplify scheduling, timesheets, tasks and workplace communication, helping businesses transform operations and empower employees to work the way they want.
Deputy connects businesses and employees seamlessly through technology to make work easier. Deputy is used by more than 270,000 people and 40,000 workplaces across 70+ countries each day.
Deputy was founded in Australia in 2008 after Steve Shelley asked Ashik Ahmed to develop as a solution to his own business problems. The software soon became Steve’s “deputy” in the day-to-day running of the business, and together, Ashik and Steve set out to expand the software’s capabilities for other businesses. Today, Deputy has 140 employees across global offices in Australia, the UK, US and the Philippines, For more information visit www.deputy.com or find us on Twitter, Facebook, the App Store or Google Play.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005211/en/
Treble
Gina Manassero, 512-960-8222
Deputy@treblepr.com
Source: Deputy