COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho, Jan. 16, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- New Jersey Mining Company (OTCQB:NJMC) (“NJMC” or the “Company”) has appointed Rob Morgan as Vice-President, Exploration. Mr. Morgan will direct NJMC’s exploration activities, which have been largely focused on the surface and underground programs at the Golden Chest Mine and its recently expanded land position in the Murray Gold Belt of Northern Idaho.
Mr. Morgan has over 21 years of exploration experience, including 19 years focused on gold exploration, of which 11 years were in Northern Idaho and Montana. Mr. Morgan has worked for some of the world's leading gold exploration and mining companies including Newmont and ASARCO throughout the western United States, Alaska and South America. He is practiced in designing, implementing and managing large exploration programs for gold, silver, base metals and rare earth elements. His technical work has included geologic mapping, logging of drill holes, compilation and interpretation of multiple data sets for target identification.
New Jersey Mining Company’s President & CEO, John Swallow, commented: "Rob is a true talent and a great fit within the New Jersey team. His substantial knowledge and experience in gold exploration and mineral deposits in Idaho, Montana and Nevada make him ideally suited to direct our exploration efforts. Many geologists go their entire career and never see a mine to production. I believe Rob can work anywhere and formally joined the team because he has confidence in the management team, the significant potential of our holdings within the Murray Gold Belt, and our ability to grow into the next level – a theme that is shared throughout the company."
Mr. Morgan earned his Bachelor of Science degree in geology from California State University at Chico. He has an extensive environmental background with emphasis on wetlands and water management. Mr. Morgan is a registered professional geologist with the State of Idaho and Professional Land Surveyor registered with the State of Montana.
About New Jersey Mining Company
New Jersey Mining Company is headquartered in north Idaho, where it is currently in production at its Golden Chest Mine. It is deploying its mining and milling expertise to build a portfolio of advanced-stage assets with near-term cash flow potential and leverage to higher gold prices.
NJMC owns and operates the Golden Chest Mine project where open pit mining is underway and underground mining is expected to resume in this quarter. NJMC also holds a 50-percent interest in the fully-permitted Butte Highlands Gold Project. NJMC built and is majority owner and operator of the New Jersey Mill, a 360-tonne per day flotation mill and concentrate leach plant.
Company assets were developed with more than $50-million of investment dollars from New Jersey and other companies. Management owns more than 17-percent of NJMC stock and has participated in prior financings and made purchases in the open market.
The Company’s common stock trades on the OTC-QB Market under the symbol “NJMC.”
For more information on New Jersey Mining Company go to www.newjerseymining.com or call:
Monique Hayes, Corporate Secretary/Investor Relations
Email: monique@newjerseymining.com
(208) 625-9001
Forward Looking Statements
This release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections. Such statements are based on good faith assumptions that New Jersey Mining Company believes are reasonable but which are subject to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the Company’s, results of operations, the risk that mine plan changes due to rising costs or other operational details, risks and hazards inherent in the mining business (including risks inherent in developing mining projects, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, weather or geologically related conditions), changes in the market prices of gold and silver and the potential impact on revenues from changes in the market price of gold and cash costs, a sustained lower price environment, as well as other uncertainties and risk factors. Actual results, developments and timetables could vary significantly from the estimates presented. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. NJMC disclaims any intent or obligation to update publicly such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Source:New Jersey Mining Company