PHOENIX, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Alpine 4 Technologies' (OTCQB: ALPP) subsidiary, Quality Circuit Assembly (QCA), is proud to announce that it has acquired three new electric vehicle customers in Q4 of 2017. These new customers fit the QCA strategy and possess exciting disruptive technology. With the addition of these customers, QCA feels that it will be better able to meet its revenue growth plans for 2018.
Jeff Hail, QCA's President, stated, "Obtaining new disruptive partners in the highly competitive landscape in which QCA operates is critical to QCA's long term success. These types of new partners can create exponential growth given the success of their new technology. This type of revenue along with growing our strong existing customer base will prove to be a great way to achieve the growth we are expecting in 2018."
New partnerships with exciting new technology serve as the future of any successful contract manufacturer and will be the main driver of QCA's growth.
QCA has provided manufacturing support to their customers around the world since 1988.
About Alpine 4 Technologies Ltd.
Alpine 4 is a publicly held enterprise with business-related endeavors in Automotive Technologies, Electronics Manufacturing, Software and Data Technologies.
Four principles at the core of our business are, "SIDE" Synergy & Innovation Drive Excellence. At Alpine 4, we believe synergistic innovation drives excellence. By anchoring these words to our combined experience and capabilities, we are able to aggressively pursue opportunities within and across vertical markets. We deliver solutions that not only drive industry standards, but increase value for our shareholders.
Contact: Ian Kantrowitz, Director of Investor Relations
iank@alpine4.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
The information disclosed in this press release is made as of the date hereof and reflects Alpine 4 most current assessment of its historical financial performance. Actual financial results filed with the SEC may differ from those contained herein due to timing delays between the date of this release and confirmation of final audit results. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties, including the uncertainties surrounding the current market volatility, and other factors the Company identifies from time to time in its filings with the SEC. Although Alpine 4 believes that the assumptions on which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and, as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions also could be incorrect. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date hereof, and Alpine 4 disclaims any intention or obligation to update the forward-looking statements for subsequent events.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alpine-4s-subsidiary-quality-circuit-assembly-qca-secures-three-new-electric-vehicle-customers-in-q4-of-2017-300578895.html
SOURCE Alpine 4 Technologies Ltd.