WESTON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ultimate Software (Nasdaq: ULTI), a leading provider of human capital management (HCM) solutions in the cloud, will be hosting a conference call on Tuesday, February 6, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time to discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and year-end of 2017.
Forward-looking information about future company performance may be discussed during the teleconference call. This call is open to the public and will be hosted by Scott Scherr, CEO, president, and founder, and Mitchell Dauerman, CFO, executive vice president, and treasurer. The call will be audiocast live at www.investorcalendar.com/event/20305 .
Participants should access this site 10 minutes before the start of the call. Windows Media Player software is required to listen and can be downloaded from the site. The call will be available for replay at the same Web address at 9:00 p.m. Eastern time on the day of the call.
Ultimate’s press release for our 2017 fourth-quarter and year-end financial results will be available after 4:00 p.m. Eastern time on February 6, on our website at www.ultimatesoftware.com/PR/Financial-Releases .
About Ultimate Software
Ultimate is a leading provider of cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solutions, with more than 35 million people records in the cloud. Ultimate’s award-winning UltiPro delivers HR, payroll, talent, and time and labor management solutions that connect people with the information they need to work more effectively. Founded in 1990, Ultimate is headquartered in Weston, Florida, and employs more than 4,000 professionals. In 2017, Fortune ranked Ultimate #7 on its prestigious 100 Best Companies to Work For list; #1 on its 10 Best Large Workplaces in Technology; and #2 on its 100 Best Workplaces for Women. Also in 2017, Ultimate ranked #7 on Forbes’ 100 Most Innovative Growth Companies and #2 on People’s 50 Companies That Care; the National Customer Service Association named Ultimate the top Service Organization of the Year in the Large-Business category; Gartner positioned Ultimate a “Leader” in its Magic Quadrant for Cloud HCM Suites for Midmarket and Large Enterprises; and Nucleus Research named Ultimate a “Leader” in its HCM Technology Value Matrix. Ultimate has more than 4,000 customers with employees in 160 countries, including Bloomin’ Brands, Culligan International, Feeding America, Major League Baseball, Red Roof Inn, SUBWAY, Texas Roadhouse, and Yamaha Corporation of America. More information on Ultimate’s products and services for people management can be found at www.ultimatesoftware.com .
UltiPro is a registered trademark of The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. All other trademarks referenced are the property of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005672/en/
Ultimate Software
Mitchell K. Dauerman, 954-331-7369
Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations
IR@ultimatesoftware.com
Source: Ultimate Software