Hurricanes winger Justin Williams scored a go-ahead goal just 10 seconds after the Montreal Canadiens tied the game, allowing Carolina to claim a 6-5 victory Thursday night at the Bell Centre in Montreal.
The high-scoring game was full momentum shifts. The Canadiens posted four second-period goals but still lost for the second time in three games.
Teuro Teravainen scored twice and added an assist for the Hurricanes, who ended a two-game losing streak going into the All-Star break.
Jordan Staal, Jeff Skinner and Derek Ryan also scored for Carolina, which matched its season high of six goals set during an October game at Toronto.
Carolina goalie Cam Ward stopped 26 shots, helping the Hurricanes win for only the third time in their past nine games.
The Canadiens failed to score with an extra skater despite pulling goalie Carey Price with about two minutes to play.
Charles Hudon had two goals and an assist for the Canadiens, while Brendan Gallagher, Jeff Petry and Max Pacioretty also found the net. Gallagher’s goal and one of Hudon’s tallies were unassisted. Petry had two assists and Pacioretty added one.
Only the goals from Staal and Pacioretty came on power plays, with the teams producing plenty of chances in even-strength situations.
Price made 23 saves in the first of three scheduled meetings between the teams this season.
Montreal allowed four or more goals in five of its last seven games, though this was the fifth time this season that an opponent reached the six-goal mark.
Williams produced the winning goal on one of only seven third-period shots for the Hurricanes. His ninth goal of the season, at 9:41, marked only his second goal in the last 18 games.
Petry tied the game at 4-4 with 1:18 to play in the second period, with Hudon picking up an assist on the play.
However, with six seconds left in the period, Ryan posted his 11th goal of the season.
Pacioretty pulled the Canadiens even at 9:31 of the third.
Ten seconds later, Williams posted his goal, assisted by Teravainen and Noah Hanifin.
--Field Level Media
 