NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ:VIAB)(NASDAQ:VIA) today announced that Fukiko Ogisu has been promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer, effective January 8, 2018.
In this newly created role, Ogisu will manage the company’s human resources organization and associated functions, as well as oversee Viacom’s security services. Ogisu will join Viacom’s senior leadership team and will report to Christa D’Alimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.
Bob Bakish, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, “As we continue to evolve and grow our business, attracting and retaining the best talent is essential to Viacom’s success. Fukiko combines a passion for people, knowledge of our brands and businesses, and a deep understanding of how technology and operations can make us work better. She’s the perfect person to help cultivate a diverse, entrepreneurial workforce and ensure our employees can thrive in a quickly changing environment.”
Ogisu said, “I am honored to have the opportunity to lead Viacom’s incredibly talented human resources and security teams, particularly at this exciting moment for the company. The evolving media landscape requires a workforce that is more nimble, efficient and innovative than ever before. I look forward to partnering with Viacom’s leaders to prioritize their people-centric objectives and ensure that we support the development and success of our employees by fostering a fulfilling, energizing and safe work environment.”
Ogisu joined Viacom in 2008, serving most recently as Senior Vice President, HR Business Operations and Information Solutions, where she leads worldwide HR business operations, organizational effectiveness, learning and development, employee experience programs and policies, and the company portal. Prior to joining Viacom, Ogisu spent more than a decade at Microsoft in various product and business roles across the company. She earned her Bachelors of Arts degree in Comparative Area Studies from Duke University, and a Masters of Arts in East Asian Languages & Civilizations from the University of Chicago.
About Viacom
Viacom is home to premier global media brands that create compelling entertainment content - including television programs, motion pictures, short-form content, apps, games, consumer products, podcasts, live events and social media experiences - for audiences in more than 180 countries. Viacom's media networks, including Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Spike (to be rebranded as Paramount Network in the U.S.), VH1, TV Land, CMT, Logo, Channel 5 (UK), Telefe (Argentina), Colors (India) and Paramount Channel, reach approximately 4.3 billion cumulative television subscribers worldwide. Paramount Pictures is a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. Paramount Television develops, finances and produces original programming for television and digital platforms.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit www.viacom.com . Viacom may also use social media channels to communicate with its investors and the public about the company, its brands and other matters, and those communications could be deemed to be material information. Investors and others are encouraged to review posts on Viacom’s company blog ( blog.viacom.com ), Twitter feed ( twitter.com/viacom ) and Facebook page ( facebook.com/viacom ).
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006554/en/
Media
Viacom Inc.
Alex Rindler, 212-846-4337
Senior Manager, Corporate Communications
Alex.Rindler@viacom.com
Source: Viacom Inc.