WALTHAM, Mass., Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Product development firm Boston Engineering today appointed Jesse Rusk to direct the company's Medical Devices practice, and named Dave Jacobs a senior medical devices consultant.
"Dave and Jesse are pivotal in helping our medical clients overcome some of their toughest product development challenges and gain FDA clearance," said Bob Treiber , president and co-founder of Boston Engineering. "We congratulate Jesse on his new role, and we look forward to continuing to work with Dave to develop innovative medical products."
Mr. Rusk applies his medical product development and business experience to direct innovative medical projects. He previously led medical product development efforts for Boston Engineering start-up and multinational clients as a project manager. Prior to joining Boston Engineering in 2015, Mr. Rusk held a series of technical and leadership roles within the medical device industry, including systems engineering manager at OmniGuide Surgical.
Mr. Rusk received a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering, a master's in Mechanical Engineering, and an MBA from Boston University. Additionally, he holds Six Sigma Green Belt and Project Management Professional (PMP) certifications.
Dave Jacobs has led the growth of Boston Engineering's Medical Devices practice since joining the firm in 2014. In his new role, Mr. Jacobs will continue to advance new medical capabilities for Boston Engineering clients.
About Boston Engineering
Boston Engineering provides product design and engineering consulting across the entire product development process – from concept through product launch. Certified for ISO 9001 and ISO 13485, the company's industry expertise includes defense & security, medical devices, robotics, and commercial products. Founded in 1995, Boston Engineering is headquartered in Waltham, Mass. with an additional office at UMass Dartmouth's Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Learn more at www.boston-engineering.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/boston-engineering-strengthens-its-medical-devices-industry-leadership-300588953.html
SOURCE Boston Engineering