MEMPHIS, Tenn., First Horizon National Corp. is proud to announce that Candace Steele Flippin has joined the company as executive vice president and chief communications officer. First Tennessee Bank, Capital Bank, FTB Advisors, and FTN Financial are part of First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN).
Candace Steele Flippin
Steele Flippin will develop and lead communications across all areas of the company. Her extensive experience in media relations and public relations aligns with the strategic priorities of First Horizon, which was recently named No. 5 among American Banker’s Top 10 Most Reputable U.S. Banks.
“Candace is an excellent addition to our team, and her depth of experience in global communications, merger and acquisition communications, and corporate philanthropy make her uniquely suited for this role,” said Bryan Jordan, First Horizon’s chairman and CEO. “We are excited to welcome Candace to First Horizon and we look forward to her leadership in developing communications strategies across our footprint.”
Steele Flippin is a public relations leader with more than two decades of experience in communications and public affairs. Prior to joining First Horizon, she was divisional vice president of public affairs for Abbott Laboratories and previously held leadership positions at St. Jude Medical, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, and Ketchum Public Relations.
Steele Flippin earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan, an M.B.A. from Johns Hopkins University, and a doctor in management from Case Western Reserve University.
About First Horizon
First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN) provides financial services through its First Tennessee, Capital Bank, FTB Advisors, and FTN Financial businesses. First Horizon operates more than 350 bank locations across the southern U.S. and 28 FTN Financial offices across the entire U.S. Our banking subsidiary was founded in 1864 and has the 14th oldest national bank charter in the country. Our First Tennessee and Capital Bank brands have the largest deposit market share in Tennessee and one of the highest customer retention rates of any bank in the country. We have been ranked by American Banker as No. 5 among the Top 10 Most Reputable U.S. Banks. Our FTB Advisors wealth management group has over 300 financial advisors and about $30 billion in assets under administration. FTN Financial is a capital markets industry leader in fixed income sales, trading and strategies for institutional customers in the U.S. and abroad. We have been recognized as one of the nation’s best employers by Working Mother and American Banker magazines and the National Association for Female Executives. More information is available at www.FirstHorizon.com .
FHN-G
CONTACT: First Horizon Media Relations, James Dowd, (901) 523-4305
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/177f7a8f-8d06-4cb8-ac2b-651c02925353
Source:First Horizon National Corporation