ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Snagajob , the nation's largest marketplace for hourly work, today announced John Frederick officially joined the company as its new Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) on January 2, 2018. Frederick joins an already impressive executive leadership team and will further the company's commitment to improve the lives of hourly workers and employers.
"I am thrilled to welcome John to Snagajob," said Peter Harrison , CEO of Snagajob. "Not only does he bring a wealth of financial and business expertise, but he is also experienced in technology and consumer product companies and very familiar with transformation and growth. He has extensive knowledge within many of our key growth areas, and I am confident that his knowledge and experience will be instrumental in helping us achieve our ambitious growth goals. We are thrilled to have him on board as we continue to propel the nation's largest hourly marketplace to new heights."
"I can't imagine a more exciting time to join Snagajob," said Frederick. "Snagajob is at the forefront of the future of hourly work, enabling stronger connections between workers and employers every day. The company is making history, and I'm delighted to be a part of it."
Frederick has more than 20 years of experience leading financial and administrative functions within private and public companies with revenues ranging from $60 million to more than $2 billion. He received his Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of Maryland and is a Certified Public Accountant.
Based in the company's Arlington, Va. office, Frederick succeeds Keith Haas , who served as Snagajob's CFO for nearly five years.
Commenting on Keith's contributions to the company, Harrison said, "During Keith's tenure at Snagajob, the company experienced tremendous growth and success. He supported strategic revenue growth of 300 percent; completed more than $160 million in financing; oversaw the 2016 PeopleMatter acquisition ; and assembled a strong finance and accounting team. We wish him continued success in his future endeavours."
About Snagajob
With more than 80 million registered hourly workers and 350,000 employer locations, Snagajob is America's #1 online hourly marketplace. We focus on creating instant and quality connections so workers can get jobs and employers can hire workers in minutes. Since 2000, our mission has been to put people in right fit-positions so they can maximize their potential and live more fulfilling lives. Our mobile sourcing, hiring, training, scheduling and performance management tools drive results for single-location operators to Fortune 500 businesses with thousands of locations, across the restaurant, retail, hospitality and healthcare industries.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/snagajob-appoints-new-chief-administrative-officer-300581163.html
SOURCE Snagajob