STERLING HEIGHTS, Mich., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Key Safety Systems (KSS), a global leader in mobility safety headquartered in Michigan, USA, is pleased to announce that the United States of America Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") has granted early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR"), with respect to KSS' pending acquisition of Takata.
The early termination of the HSR waiting period satisfies one of the conditions to the closing of the pending acquisition, which remains subject to other customary closing conditions. As previously announced, KSS expects the transaction to be completed within the first quarter of 2018.
About KSS
Key Safety Systems (KSS) is a global leader in mobility safety through the system integration and performance of safety-critical components to the automotive and non-automotive markets serving the active safety, passive safety and specialty product sectors. Through highly specialized design, development, and manufacturing, KSS' technology is featured in more than 300 vehicle models produced by over 60 well-diversified customers worldwide. Since commencing business as a United States start-up, serving Detroit automakers in 1916, KSS continues today with an entrepreneurial and pioneering spirit. KSS is headquartered in Sterling Heights, Michigan, with a global network of more than 13,000 employees in 34 sales, engineering, and manufacturing facilities. The company has 5 main technical centers located in the key regions of the Americas, Europe and Asia. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ningbo Joyson Electronic Corp. (SHA: 600699) ("Joyson Electronics").
For further information about Key Safety Systems see: http://www.keysafetyinc.com .
CONTACT: Jean-luc Blancou - KSS
Blancoj2@keysafetyinc.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kss-granted-early-termination-of-hart-scott-rodino-waiting-period-for-its-proposed-acquisition-of-takata-300586710.html
SOURCE Key Safety Systems