How you use Facebook affects how you feel.
So says Mark Zuckerberg , the billionaire tech titan who founded the social media behemoth.
When you use Facebook to talk to your friends and family, you feel better, says Zuckerberg, but when you use it to scroll through videos and posts passively, you don't, necessarily.
"The research shows that when we use social media to connect with people we care about, it can be good for our well-being. We can feel more connected and less lonely, and that correlates with long-term measures of happiness and health," Zuckerberg writes, in a post published to his personal Facebook page Thursday.
"On the other hand, passively reading articles or watching videos — even if they're entertaining or informative — may not be as good," Zuckerberg says.
The comments about how to use Facebook productively came as the CEO announced a change in the algorithm that determines what users see in their newsfeeds. Facebook will, going forward, move away from showing posts from businesses, brands and media. Instead, Facebook will prioritize posts from friends and family in users' feeds.
"We feel a responsibility to make sure our services aren't just fun to use, but also good for people's well-being," Zuckerberg writes.
In the short-term, the change may mean users spend less time on the platform. But in the long-run, Zuckerberg says the change is better for the health of the company.
"Now, I want to be clear: By making these changes, I expect the time people spend on Facebook and some measures of engagement will go down," Zuckerberg says. "But I also expect the time you do spend on Facebook will be more valuable. And if we do the right thing, I believe that will be good for our community and our business over the long-term, too."
This is the second time in as many months Facebook has acknowledged that using the platform may not be good for you.
show chapters Former employees explain why Facebook's secrets rarely leak 11:49 AM ET Mon, 6 Feb 2017 | 00:52
Last month, Facebook's director of research, David Ginsberg, and research scientist Moira Burke published a