1 COMMENTS The riskiest Chinese banks have found a new wheeze—lend more to big-spending Chinese consumers.
As Beijing ramps up scrutiny of the financial sector , midtier banks have turned away from activities like seemingly indiscriminate lending and shadow banking—now frowned upon— to retail lending, handing out piles of credit cards and nonmortgage loans .
Take Shenzhen-listed Ping An Bank , a subsidiary of Ping An Insurance 601318 1.55% Group, whose 3.2 trillion yuan ($400 billion) in assets represents around 2% of the country’s banking system.
More than 4% of its loans are designated “special-mention” —meaning on the edge of going bad—one of the highest proportions among its Chinese peers. Both return on equity and regulatory capital have been declining , the latter to just over 8%, the lowest among China’s top banks. Its cost of funding has risen sharply , and a measure of its liquidity is near the regulatory minimum . Its insurer parent has had to inject fresh capital three times in recent years, the latest a 26 billion yuan ($4 billion) infusion last year.
Ping An Bank shareholders may need cover. Photo: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg News In desperation, new management has embraced a new strategy, turning a long-touted consumer focus into reality. Retail loans, which accounted for only about 15% of Ping An Bank ’s assets at the end 2016, had surged by the end of September to around a third of assets—and about 60% of profits before tax. Of the more than 30 million credit cards the bank has issued, a third were handed out in the first nine months of last year. Yields on its nonmortgage assets are lucrative, at around 9%.
But Ping An Bank’s record should cause concern. It was once notorious for its wealth-management products —the often highly leveraged investment products that Beijing is now so worried about . Now, along with its credit-card splurge, the number of unsecured cash loans typically to cash-strapped borrowers has rocketed, rising by 50% in the first nine months of 2017.
So far, investors don’t seem troubled: Ping An Bank trades at 1.4 times its book value, the highest among Chinese banks barring outlier China Merchants Bank . Investors should wonder whether it can make up for what’s looming in its past quite so easily and safely.
Corrections & Amplifications
Shenzhen-listed Ping An Bank, a subsidiary of Ping An Insurance Group, has about $400 billion in assets. An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the amount of assets in U.S. dollars.
Write to Anjani Trivedi at anjani.trivedi@wsj.com