San Jose, CA, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Objectivity, Inc., a leader in enterprise database software platforms for critical, operational, real-time data and sensor fusion systems, announced a profit and increase in revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 ending December 31, 2017. “Objectivity is pleased to announce profitability for its second quarter of fiscal 2018. With revenue increasing 26% over the previous quarter, and cash and receivables growing by 23%, Objectivity has a strong foundation and is optimistic in seeing further growth during their third fiscal quarter,” stated Gary Lewis, CFO of Objectivity, Inc.
Objectivity also highlighted in the second quarter that its products run in all major cloud environments. Running on premise or in the cloud gives enterprises and the government the flexibility required for large scale deployments. A demonstration and free evaluation of ThingSpan are currently available on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Marketplace.
Jay Jarrell, President and CEO of Objectivity, Inc. said, "With our financial position and technical advantages, we are well positioned for further growth in calendar year 2018. Our products are machine learning compatible and can be deployed in any cloud environment, which makes it easier for enterprise customers to scale and rapidly find new intelligence and inter-related connections in operational and large, disparate data sets.”
About Objectivity
Objectivity, Inc. delivers massively scalable and highly performant enterprise software platforms that are proven to power mission-critical applications for the most demanding and complex datasets. With a rich history of serving Global 1000 customers and partners, Objectivity holds deep domain expertise in fusing vital information from massive volumes of data and sources to discover unknown connections at speed and scale. Objectivity’s technology enables enterprises to make better decisions with precision, scale and efficiency. Objectivity is privately held with headquarters in San Jose, California.
Kim Wizer 408.992.7100 Public-Relations@objectivity.com
Source:Objectivity, Inc.