PEACHTREE CORNERS, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- FLEETCOR Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FLT), a leading global provider of commercial payment solutions, today announced it has named Jim Eglseder as its new head of investor relations. He will report to Eric Dey, FLEETCOR’s chief financial officer.
“Jim is a well-regarded investor relations professional in the financial services industry, and his unique combination of strategy and IR experience at a large financial services company, makes him an ideal person to head our investor relations effort,” said Mr. Dey. “Jim will be a valuable addition to our team and will provide an important perspective to the business as he builds the function for the Company as his sole focus.”
Mr. Eglseder joins the Company from Fifth Third Bancorp where he was most recently senior vice president and managing director corporate strategy. Prior to that role, he spent more than a decade in investor relations, where he was responsible for all aspects of the program including investor communications, investor and analyst relationships, and investor conferences and road shows.
Mr. Eglseder holds a bachelor’s degree from Miami University and a master’s degree in business administration from the Williams College of Business at Xavier University.
About FLEETCOR
FLEETCOR Technologies (NYSE: FLT) is a leading global provider of commercial payment solutions. The Company helps businesses of all sizes better control, simplify and secure payment of their fuel, toll, lodging and other general payables. With its proprietary payment acceptance networks, FLEETCOR provides affiliated merchants with incremental sales and loyalty. FLEETCOR serves businesses, partners and merchants in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Australasia. For more information, please visit www.FLEETCOR.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118006219/en/
FLEETCOR Technologies, Inc.
Investor Relations
Jim Eglseder, 770-417-4697
Jim.Eglseder@fleetcor.com
Source: FLEETCOR Technologies, Inc.