Conference Call: Thursday, January 11, 2018, at 10:30 am PST/1:30 pm EST
SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Heritage Commerce Corp (NASDAQ:HTBK) (“Heritage”), the parent company of Heritage Bank of Commerce, and United American Bank (OTCBB:UABK) (“United American”) today jointly announced the execution of a definitive agreement and plan of merger and reorganization (the “Agreement”) whereby United American will merge into Heritage Bank of Commerce in a transaction valued at approximately $44.2 million. Heritage will issue approximately 2.8 million of its shares of common stock to the United American common and preferred shareholders in the merger. Additionally, outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will be exchanged for $9.1 million in cash at closing. United American is a full-service California state-chartered commercial bank with branches in San Mateo, Redwood City, and Half Moon Bay, California and serves businesses and individuals primarily in the county of San Mateo in Northern California. As of September 30, 2017, United American had approximately $336.4 million in total assets.
Under the terms of the Agreement, shareholders of United American will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 2.1644 shares of Heritage common stock for each share of United American common stock and each common stock equivalent underlying the United American Series D Preferred Stock and Series E Preferred Stock. Shareholders of the United American Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred stock will receive $1,000 per share in cash. Based on Heritage’s closing price of $15.65 per share of Heritage common stock on January 9, 2018, the penultimate trading date before the transaction was announced, the aggregate merger consideration to be received by holders of United American common stock and common stock equivalents is valued at approximately $44.2 million or $33.87 for each of the United American shares of common stock and common stock equivalents, and additionally, holders of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will receive $9.1 million in cash. The exchange ratio is fixed and the aggregate and per share values of the merger consideration will fluctuate between the date of the Agreement and the date that the merger is completed. On a pro forma basis, the holders of United American common shares, the Series D Preferred Stock and the Series E Preferred Stock will own approximately 6.6% of the issued and outstanding Heritage common stock following the Heritage merger with Tri-Valley Bank (“Tri-Valley”) and United American. ATBancorp, a bank holding company headquartered in Dubuque, Iowa, which wholly-owns two separate bank subsidiaries, and owns approximately 83% of United American’s common stock and all of its preferred stock. ATBancorp is a party to the Agreement and has agreed to vote all of its shares of United American in favor of the transaction. On a pro forma basis, ATBancorp will own approximately 5.4% of the issued and outstanding Heritage common stock following the Heritage merger with Tri-Valley and United American.
The board of directors of Heritage and United American have approved the transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approvals of the transaction that is intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes and United American common stock shareholders are not expected to recognize gain or loss to the extent they receive stock as consideration.
The transaction is subject to the approval of state and federal bank regulatory agencies and the shareholders of United American and other conditions specified in the Agreement. Heritage does not need to obtain shareholder approval.
“United American Bank is a perfect fit for Heritage, as both our values are aligned with fostering client relationships. The combination of our two organizations provides the ability to create revenue and cost synergies while offering United American customers a broader product offering, increased lending limits, and an expanded branch delivery system that stretches throughout the San Francisco Bay Area,” said Walter Kaczmarek, President and Chief Executive Officer of Heritage. “On the heels of the Tri-Valley Bank agreement, signed at the end of December 2017, acquiring United American is a natural progression for us. Once transaction costs have been assimilated in the first half of 2018, we expect the merger to be accretive to earnings. We welcome their customers, shareholders and employees to Heritage as we continue to strengthen our banking franchise.”
“We have been impressed by Heritage and how their culture and focus on serving their community are so similar to ours,” remarked John C. Schrup, President and Chief Executive Officer of United American Bank. “We believe this transaction represents the best path toward long-term value creation for our shareholders. Our customers will benefit from becoming part of a larger banking franchise with an expanded range of products and services throughout the San Francisco Bay Area.”
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. was the financial advisor to Heritage in the transaction. Buchalter, a professional corporation, Los Angeles, California, was legal counsel to Heritage. Sandler O’Neill + Partners, L.P. acted as financial advisor to United American. Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP, San Francisco, California was legal counsel to United American. Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum & Nagelberg LLP, Chicago, Illinois was legal counsel to ATBancorp.
Conference Call
Heritage Management will host a conference call regarding this announcement on Thursday, January 11, 2018, at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Standard Time (1:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time). Investment professionals and all current and prospective shareholders are invited to access the live call by dialing 1-888-317-6016 immediately prior to the call and ask for the Heritage Commerce Corp conference call. From Canada, please dial 1-855-669-9657. To listen to the call online, either live or archived, visit Heritage’s website at www.heritagecommercecorp.com .
An investor presentation in connection with the transaction will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and will be available on Heritage’s website at www.heritagecommercecorp.com under the link for “Presentations” and on United American’s website at www.unitedamericanbank.com under the link for “About Us/News.”
ABOUT HERITAGE COMMERCE CORP AND HERITAGE BANK OF COMMERCE
Heritage Commerce Corp, a California corporation organized in 1998, is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Heritage provides a wide range of banking services through Heritage Bank of Commerce, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Heritage Bank of Commerce is a California state-chartered bank headquartered in San Jose, California and has been conducting business since 1994. Heritage is a multi-community independent bank that offers a full range of commercial banking services to small and medium