SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Callan LLC , a leading institutional investment consulting firm, announced today the additions of David Zee, CFA, and David Wang to its Global Manager Research (GMR) group, effective January 29. Mr. Zee, a senior vice president, will be based in Los Angeles while Mr. Wang, an assistant vice president, will be located in the firm’s San Francisco headquarters.
Mr. Zee will be the third member of the GMR Fixed Income team. As a fixed income specialist, he will leverage more than 20 years of industry experience while covering market-related research and investment manager due diligence across all segments of the fixed income marketplace. He will work closely with Callan consultants and clients on manager searches, education, and special projects. Most recently, Mr. Zee was a vice president at Wilshire Associates, a member of its manager research group, and a voting member of its Investment Committee.
“We are thrilled to have David join the Fixed Income group,” said Amy Jones , senior vice president and co-head of Callan’s GMR group. “He has established himself as a trusted and highly regarded manager research professional within the industry, and his wealth of knowledge across the fixed income money manager space will be a valued asset to Callan’s clients. David brings great energy and innovative ideas to the role, and will be a wonderful addition to a strong and well-tenured fixed income team.”
Mr. Wang will join Callan as an equity specialist, and he will also work closely with Callan consultants and clients on manager searches, education, and special projects. Most recently, he was an assistant vice president and analyst for Moody’s Investors Services. Prior to that, he was a director with UBS after completing its Graduate Training Rotational Program.
“David brings an exceptionally strong technical and market background, which will be an immediate asset to our research group,” said Mark Stahl , senior vice president and co-head of GMR. “His past due diligence on credit ratings for asset managers and published research on asset management trends will benefit the entire organization. Also, David’s experience interviewing company management and affable personality makes him a great fit for our group and the overall Callan culture.”
About Callan LLC
Callan was founded as an employee-owned investment consulting firm in 1973. Ever since, we have empowered institutional clients with creative, customized investment solutions that are backed by proprietary research, exclusive data, and ongoing education. Today, Callan advises on more than $2 trillion in total fund sponsor assets, which makes it among the largest independently owned investment consulting firms in the U.S. Callan uses a client-focused consulting model to serve pension and defined contribution plan sponsors, endowments, foundations , independent investment advisers , investment managers , and other asset owners . Callan has five offices throughout the U.S.
# # #
Callan LLC is a registered trademark of Callan. All other companies and products mentioned are trademarks and property of their respective owners.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c6c0abe6-82bc-46de-95d4-9b1592364f71
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/ad63fbb7-85a8-4cf5-bdf7-158df5989327
Elizabeth Anathan Callan LLC 4152743020 mediarelations@callan.com
Source:Callan LLC