LIVONIA, Mich.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Valassis , a leader in activating consumers through intelligent media delivery, announced the appointment of Cindy Walker to Senior Vice President, Human Resources. She will lead the strategic direction for human resources across the company, working closely with Valassis leaders on organizational design, talent management and acquisition, associate development, associate relations and compliance.
Since becoming Vice President of Human Resources for Valassis in 2015, Walker has assumed increasing levels of responsibility with a focus on furthering efforts around developing and engaging talent. In her new role, Walker will introduce a leadership mentoring program and implement a core competency-based performance management model.
“Cindy is bringing fresh ideas and programs to Valassis, assisting in the evolution of our culture to support our growth initiatives,” said Wayne Powers, President, Valassis. “I am excited to build upon what she has already put in place as well as see the successes of what she has set in motion for 2018 and beyond.”
Walker has more than 15 years of human resources experience, including senior leadership roles at The Suburban Collection, a network of automotive dealers, Comcast and Ford Motor Company.
“I am proud to be part of the incredible transformation occurring at Valassis and to work with such a talented leadership team,” said Walker. “I look forward to playing a larger role in the growth, development and experience of our associates and leaders.”
Walker earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Oakland University as well as a master’s degree and doctorate in industrial and organizational psychology from Wayne State University.
About Valassis
Valassis helps thousands of local and national brands tap the potential of industry-leading data through intelligent media delivery – understanding, engaging and inspiring millions of consumers to action with smarter cross-channel campaigns. We’ve been part of consumers’ lives for decades, introducing new ways to deliver offers and messages that activate them — whether via mail, digital, in-store or the newspaper. NCH Marketing Services, Inc. and Clipper Magazine are Valassis subsidiaries, and RedPlum ® is its consumer brand. Its signature Have You Seen Me? ® program delivers hope to missing children and their families. Valassis and RetailMeNot are wholly owned subsidiaries of Harland Clarke Holdings .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006112/en/
Valassis
Mary Broaddus, 734-591-7375
broaddusm@valassis.com
Source: Valassis