HOUSTON, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Galtway Industries, LLC, leading channel partner of world class manufacturers that specialize in developing and implementing supply chain solutions for Top Tier OEMS, has promoted Greg Gilbert to Vice President of Sales effective January 1.
Gilbert will oversee the company's business development strategy and implementation. "Greg has a very unique knowledge and skill set that provides an unmatched value to our customers. This decision was a very easy one, as Greg has taken a leadership role with Galtway Industries for years. Ultimately, this decision will benefit our channel partners, as well as our customers," said Trey Smith, President of Galtway Industries.
Gilbert joined Galtway Industries in February 2015, as Director of Business Development and Special Projects. For over a decade, Gilbert has worked in the steel industry focusing on supply chain and business development operations. His in-depth knowledge of the market and creative problem-solving abilities have driven Gilbert's customer connections and career success.
Gilbert started his career at Sunbelt Steel as a territory sales manager, where he developed and implemented rebranding strategies that transitioned the company into the added value alloy steel bar distribution market and established a full-service branch that directly resulted in company growth. He later moved on to become Sunbelt's Director of Production Planning. In this role, Gilbert introduced a series of process improvements, upgrades, and key metrics to measure production performance that increased on-time delivery and drove overall operational efficiencies.
About Galtway Industries, LLC
Galtway Industries, LLC is the leading channel partner of world class manufacturers that specialize in developing and implementing supply chain solutions for Top Tier OEMS. Founded in 2013 and headquartered in Fort Worth, TX, Galtway Industries operates in America, Canada, Italy, Mexico and Asia. With a specialty in steel forgings, castings, and machining, Galtway Industries partner with industry leading and vertically integrated manufacturers to implement key solutions for supply chain improvements, operations and strategic stocking options to help companies improve manufacturing challenges of today. For more information about Galtway Industries, visit www.galtwayindustries.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/galtway-industries-promotes-greg-gilbert-to-vice-president-of-sales-300586876.html
SOURCE Galtway Industries