DALLAS, January 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Alternet Systems, Inc. (USOTC: ALYI) and Lithium Exploration Group, Inc. (USOTC: LEXGD) today announced entering into a letter of intent (LOI) agreement whereby Alternet Systems will acquire the Sonic Cavitation (SonCav) technology assets to include existing SonCav contracts. The preliminary deal structure has Alternet forming a new subsidiary dedicated to serving the lithium mining industry and having the new subsidiary acquire the Lithium Exploration Group SonCav assets. To facilitate a dedicated capital campaign to finance the new subsidiary, Alternet plans to spin the subsidiary off as an independent publicly traded company issuing stock in the spinoff to shareholders of both Alternet Systems and Lithium Exploration Group.
In July of last year, Alternet acquired an exclusive license agreement with Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (NYSE: APD) for ten U.S. Patented lithium battery technologies with an option to acquire the ten U.S. Patents. The company is applying its portfolio of patented lithium battery technologies to enhance the value of electric powered products to include electric vehicles and military support systems. The company is implementing a strategy to optimize shareholder value in the application of its lithium technologies by spinning off applications into independently listed public companies and issuing stock in the independently listed companies to Alternet shareholders through dividend distributions. The deal with Lithium Exploration group accounts for one of the two planned spinoffs and dividend distributions recently announced by Alternet management. To learn more about Alternet's spinoff and dividend strategy, see the company's online presentation:
Alternet Spinoff And Dividend Strategy To Un l ock Shareholder Value
Learn more about Alternet Systmes: www.otc-alyi.com or www.lithiumip.com
Learn more about Lithium Exploration Group: www.lithumexploraitongroup.com
Disclaimer/Safe Harbor: This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. The statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events that involve risks and uncertainties. Among others, these risks include the expectation that any of the companies mentioned herein will achieve significant sales, the failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of the companies' contracts, the companies' liquidity position, the companies' ability to obtain new contracts, the emergence of competitors with greater financial resources and the impact of competitive pricing. In the light of these uncertainties, the forward-looking events referred to in this release might not occur.
Contact:
Alternet Systems, Inc.
Randell Torno
info@lithiumip.com
+1-800-713-0297
https://www.otc-alyi.com/contact/
SOURCE Alternet Systems, Inc.