CNBC.com Airbnb 
On Sunday, seven-time Grammy winner Kendrick Lamar is nominated for seven more awards at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year, Record of the Year and Best Rap Song. 
While Lamar is known for keeping himself humble despite his fame, he's also had his fair share of luxury. During Coachella in 2017, the rapper relaxed in some pretty sweet digs: An opulent six-bedroom villa in Rancho Mirage , California, provided courtesy of Airbnb. Getty Images | Chris Weeks Kendrick Lamar’s “Damn” was the second most-popular album in 2017. 
The resort-like estate is chock full of everything Lamar needed to relax, including a Jacuzzi, private tennis court and barbecue pit. The space is $1,630 per night, but can fit up to 16 guests at a time. (Do the math and that's just $100 per person.) 
Here's a look inside. 
The 7,700-square-foot home features marble floors, a gas fireplace and floor-to-ceiling windows, which overlook the spacious backyard. Airbnb 
The kitchen comes fully stocked with two warming trays, two ovens and a stainless steel fridge. Airbnb 
The house includes six bedrooms and seven-and-a-half bathrooms. In the master suite, a king-sized bed, cozy sitting area and private pool access make guest feel like they're at a spa.The other suites are flush with amenities as well, such as walk in closets, king- and queen-sized beds and en-suite bathrooms. Airbnb 
A private guest house creates extra space, with vaulted ceilings, a kitchenette, rock-wall gas fireplace and ample seating. Airbnb 
Back at the main house, a game room equipped with a pool table, wet bar and HDTV, means no one will ever be bored. Airbnb 
The outside is just as impressive as the interior. In the backyard, guests can pick up a game of tennis on the private court... Airbnb 
...or cool off from the California heat in the pool. Airbnb 
The villa's outdoor kitchen includes everything needed for dinner al fresco, including a gas barbecue pit, outdoor dining table with room for eight and a fire pit. Airbnb