YORK, Pa., Timothy J. Nieman, Esq. has been named General Counsel for Codorus Valley Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ:CVLY), its banking subsidiary PeoplesBank and other related subsidiaries, according to Larry J. Miller, Chairman of the Board. Counsel Nieman has over 25 years of legal experience, including commercial litigation, banking litigation and business counseling. He was most recently a Partner in the Harrisburg law firm, Rhoads & Sinon LLP.
Tim Nieman Portrait
Counsel Nieman is a graduate of Muskingum College with a Bachelor of Arts in History and Economics. He is also a graduate of the University of Virginia - School of Law with a Juris Doctorate. Counsel Nieman is a member of the Pennsylvania Bar Association, the Dauphin County Bar Association, the Federal Bar Association, and the Bar Association of the Third Federal Circuit. He is also an adjunct professor at Penn State University – Dickinson School of Law, where he teaches Advanced Appellate Advocacy.
Tim, and his wife Dianna, are proud parents of two children and reside in Mount Gretna, PA.
Codorus Valley Bancorp, Inc. is the largest independent financial services holding company headquartered in York, Pennsylvania. Codorus Valley primarily operates through its financial services subsidiary, PeoplesBank, a Codorus Valley Company. In addition to a full range of business and consumer banking services, the company also offers mortgage banking, wealth management, and real estate settlement services through a network of financial centers located in York, Cumberland, and Lancaster Counties in Pennsylvania and in Baltimore, Harford, and Carroll Counties and Baltimore City in Maryland. Additional information can be found on the Bank’s website at www.peoplesbanknet.com . Codorus Valley Bancorp, Inc.’s Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol CVLY.
CONTACT:
Nathan A. Eifert
Vice President
717-747-1520
neifert@peoplesbanknet.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/2a85ed5d-a48c-47ff-ba58-d6ba1cd1510b
Source:Codorus Valley Bancorp, Inc