Position includes overseeing all lead generation strategies
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Computer Design & Integration LLC (CDI LLC) announced today the promotion of Alyssa Hall to Vice President of Marketing and Business Development. In this role, Hall is responsible for overseeing all marketing initiatives with a focus on increasing sales revenue, building brand awareness, and delivering brand value.
“Alyssa joined CDI with an exemplary track record of developing results-driven marketing campaigns and was tasked with enhancing the vision and strategic planning of our marketing efforts and partner relations,” said Rich Falcone, President, Sales Operations. “As CDI continues to advance its hybrid cloud managed services portfolio, Alyssa has been instrumental in ensuring that marketing has successfully conveyed this messaging to customers and partners alike.”
During her tenure with the Company, Hall has executed marketing tactics inclusive of digital marketing, content marketing, search engine optimization and digital touch points, social media, advertising, corporate communications and event marketing.
“I look forward to continuing to work with our executive leadership to strengthen CDI’s position as a thought leader in the industry,” said Hall. “Through multi-faceted marketing campaigns, we’re able to identify opportunities for our sales team and articulate messages that help our customers better understand CDI’s value proposition in the marketplace.”
Hall has more than 15 years of marketing experience spanning a wide variety of industries. Her previous roles include director of marketing at GAF, North America’s largest roofing manufacturer, director of market research with Harris Interactive and marketing director with Meridian Capital Group.
About Computer Design & Integration LLC (CDI LLC):
CDI LLC was founded in 1995, with corporate headquarters in New York City, as well as office locations in Teterboro, N.J., Philadelphia, Charlotte and Atlanta. The firm has been recognized as one of the nation’s top 500 IT solution providers offering clients and businesses of all sizes the most up-to-date hybrid IT technology solutions that solve today’s most complex business challenges. CDI LLC continually focuses on achieving client satisfaction by developing and implementing comprehensive and innovative technology solutions that enhance day-to-day business workflow processes. As one of the largest solution providers, CDI LLC combines the required experience, exceptional talent, quality assurance and stability that its clients strive to achieve.
For more information, visit cdillc.com or call 1-800-234-5531. Follow us on Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn and YouTube .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005071/en/
CDI LLC
Stephanie Clark, 201-426-9259
Stephanie.Clark@cdillc.com
Source: Computer Design & Integration LLC