PUNE, India, January 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Thin Client Market is forecast to reach $1.32 billion by 2023 from $1.19 billion in 2017 at a CAGR of 1.8% during (2017-2023) driven by the development strategies implemented by the players operating in the said market which include agreements, product launches and developments, partnerships, merger and acquisition, along with the reduced cost and energy consumption, easy and centralized manageability, and increased infrastructure security associated with the adoption of thin clients.
Browse 32 Market Data Tables and 42 Figures spread through 147 Pages and in-depth TOC on "Thin Client Market by Form Factor (Standalone, With Monitor, and Mobile), Application (Enterprise, Government, Education, and Industrial), and Geography (Americas, Europe, Middle East & Africa, and Asia Pacific) - Global Forecast to 2023" http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/1282925-thin-client-market-by-form-factor-standalone-with-monitor-and-mobile-application-enterprise-government-education-and-industrial-and-geography-americas-europe-middle-east-africa-and-asia-pacific-g-st-to-2023.html .
The key players operating in the thin client market are Dell (US), HP (US), NComputing (US), Centerm (China), Igel (Germany), 10Zig (US), Fujitsu (Japan), Samsung (South Korea), Lenovo (China), LG Electronics (South Korea), NEC (Japan), ASUS (Taiwan), Cisco (US), Advantech (Taiwan), and Siemens (Germany).
The thin client market in Asia Pacific (APAC) is expected to grow at the highest CAGR between 2017 and 2023. The thin client markets in countries such as China, India, Japan, Korea, Australia, and Singapore are expected to exhibit high rates due to the large deployment of these devices in various applications.
Inquire for DISCOUNT on "Thin Client Market by Form Factor (Standalone, With Monitor, and Mobile), Application (Enterprise, Government, Education, and Industrial), and Geography (Americas, Europe, Middle East & Africa, and Asia Pacific) - Global Forecast to 2023" research report at http://www.reportsnreports.com/contacts/discount.aspx?name=1282925 .
The enterprise application is expected to hold the largest share of the overall thin client market in 2017. The largest share of the enterprise application in the thin client market is attributed to the increased adaptation of thin client devices in these applications as a computing solution. The market for enterprise includes the financial and business services, IT, telecom, utilities, wholesale and retail, construction, transportation, and healthcare industries. Healthcare, financial and business services, IT, and telecom are the prominent application area for thin clients.
The standalone form factor is expected to hold the largest size of the overall Thin Client Market . The largest share of this segment is attributed to the availability of these clients at lower costs than that of the with monitor and mobile thin clients. Also, these devices come with an easy installation and are a fast alternative to the fat clients.
With monitor form factor is expected to grow at the highest CAGR in the thin client market between 2017 and 2023. Illustrative segmentation, analysis, and forecast for the market based on form factor, application, and geography have been provided to present an overall view of the thin client market.
Order a copy of "Thin Client Market by Form Factor (Standalone, With Monitor, and Mobile), Application (Enterprise, Government, Education, and Industrial), and Geography (Americas, Europe, Middle East & Africa, and Asia Pacific) - Global Forecast to 2023" research report at http://www.reportsnreports.com/purchase.aspx?name=1282925 .
In this research report, the thin client market is segmented on the basis of form factor, application, and geography. The market based on form factor has been subsegmented into standalone, with monitor, and mobile. On the basis of application, the market has been further segmented into enterprise, government, education, and industrial.
The break-up of the profiles of primary participants for the report has been given below.
By Company: Tier 1 - 45%, Tier 2 - 30%, and Tier 3 - 25% By Designation: C-Level Executives - 35%, Managers Level - 52%, and Others - 13% By Region: Americas - 56%, APAC - 19%, and Europe - 25%
Note: "Others" comprises directors and consultants in thin client market.
Another research titled Solid State Drive (SSD) Market Global Forecast to 2023 says, the solid state drive market has entered its growth phase and is expected to grow further in the coming years. The market for solid state drive is likely to be valued at $26.47 billion in 2017 and $60.22 billion by 2023, at a CAGR of 14.68% between 2017 and 2023. Market for PCI interface SSD expected to grow at the highest CAGR during the forecast period. 1.8"/2.5" form factor based solid state drive market accounted for the largest share in 2016. Market for TLC 3D expected to grow at the highest CAGR during the forecast period. APAC is expected to be the fastest-growing market for solid state drives during the forecast period. Companies such as Samsung (South Korea), Intel (US), Western Digital (US), Micron (US), Toshiba (Japan), Kingston (US), Lite-On (Taiwan), Seagate (Ireland), SK hynix (South Korea), Microsemi (US) have been profiled in this 160 pages research report available at http://www.reportsnreports.com/purchase.aspx?name=503680 .
Explore more reports on Semiconductor and Electronics Market at http://www.reportsnreports.com/market-research/semiconductor-and-electronics/ .
About Us:
ReportsnReports.com is an online market research reports library of 500,000+ in-depth studies of over 5000 micro markets. Not limited to any one industry, ReportsnReports.com offers research studies on agriculture, energy and power, chemicals, environment, medical devices, healthcare, food and beverages, water, advanced materials and much more.
Contact:
Hrishikesh Patwardhan
2 nd Floor, Metropole Building,
Next to Inox Theatre,
Bund Garden Road, Pune - 411001.
Maharashtra, India.
+ 1-888-391-5441
sales@reportsandreports.com
Connect with Us:
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/reportsnreports
RSS/Feeds: http: //http://www.reportsnreports.com/feed/l-latestreports.xml
SOURCE ReportsnReports