MANILA (Reuters) - The Philippines ordered the forced evacuation of people from two more municipalities near a restive volcano on Monday as the chief volcanologist warned of a possible hazardous eruption “within weeks or even within days”.
More than 12,000 residents have already fled to evacuation centers after the 2,462-metre (8,077-foot) Mayon volcano, in central Albay province, began spewing ash on Saturday and unleashed burning mud and rocks on Sunday.
“There is an ongoing forced evacuation from the municipalities of Daraga and Legazpi because of the lava flow,” Romina Marasigan, spokeswoman for the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, told reporters.
“The lava flow has reached some areas around three kilometers away from the volcano.”
Mayon, a tourist attraction because of its near-perfect cone shape, showed a bright crater glow on Sunday, signifying lava had started to flow from the crater.
Manila’s airport authorities said Cebu Pacific had canceled flights to nearby Legazpi City for a second day on Monday, citing bad weather.
Mayon Volcano spews ash, as it is pictured from Legazpi, Albay, the Philippines, January, 15, 2018, in this picture obtained from social media. /via REUTERS Philippine Airlines said it had not canceled any flights to and from Legazpi, but there were some delays.
Mayon’s most destructive eruption was in February 1814, when lava buried a town and killed 1,200 people. It last erupted in 2014, spewing lava and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.
The Mayon volcano's crater glows, as it is pictured from Daraga, Albay, the Philippines, January 14, 2018 in this picture obtained from social media. Romulo Quinto Ceneta/via REUTERS The Philippines raised the volcano alert to level 3, which indicates increased volcanic activity toward a hazardous eruption, late on Sunday.
Level 5 indicates an eruption is in progress.
People have been advised to stay away from a 6-km (4-mile) radius Permanent Danger Zone and a 7-km Expanded Danger Zone on the volcano’s southern flank.
(This story corrects year of Mayon’s most destructive eruption to 1814.)
Reporting by Enrico dela Cruz; Additional reporting by Manuel Mogato and Karen Lema; Editing by Nick Macfie
 