WILMINGTON, Del., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Siegfried Group, LLP (Siegfried) is pleased to announce that Erica Vandell was recently promoted to Director in Siegfried's New York Metro Market.
"Erica has worked so diligently ever since she joined our Leadership team in the Northeast," said Domenica Scarpulla. "And the results have shown. She is a committed, ambitious, and outstanding person, which makes her a perfect fit for such an important role at our Firm."
As a Director on Siegfried's National Market Leadership Team, Vandell will continue to serve as a Leadership Advisor for Siegfried's clients, and will focus on business development and building meaningful client relationships in the New York Metro Market.
"It is both a pleasure and a privilege to be a part of an amazing, entrepreneurial company where I feel that I have a voice in the organization and that my growth as a professional is encouraged," said Vandell. "This has been an amazing, rewarding journey and I love the people who I work with — in fact, most of the time what I do doesn't even feel like work! I look forward to continuing my career here and adding additional value to the Firm, my clients, and our amazing Professionals by embracing our higher purpose."
Vandell fearlessly guides financial executives in and around the New York Metro area to excellence — in their businesses and in their lives. She studied accounting at Rutgers University, where she graduated summa cum laude and then moved into roles at PwC and The Conti Group. Before long, she found her way to Siegfried.
With a head and heart for helping others succeed, Vandell is passionate about inspiring those around her and is empowered by the strength of women, not only in her industry, but everywhere. As a champion for women in business, she considers it a great privilege to work so closely with so many strong, successful females — both as her clients and as her colleagues.
She finds joy in giving back to her alma mater, Rutgers and participates in the TeamUP Mentor program there and loves to sponsor and attend alumni events.
Vandell sees no limits, believes that every challenge is an opportunity, and is passionate about leading a strong practice in New Jersey. She resides in Monmouth County with her husband and daughter.
Siegfried congratulates Vandell as she takes on this new role as a Director and continues her success at the Firm.
More information about the Firm and its career opportunities is available at siegfriedgroup.com .
About The Siegfried Group, LLP (Siegfried)
Siegfried works alongside financial executives across the nation, on their most important accounting and finance projects. Filled with an innovative spirit and led by an ambitious entrepreneur, Siegfried provides unique Leadership Advisory combined with high potential talent. At the heart of our Firm is our approach to individual leadership and the continual pursuit of helping people grow both personally and professionally. As a whole, we value having fun, being fair, and building and sharing stakeholder value.
Contact:
Megan Pettingill
(302) 660-1516
mpettingill@siegfriedgroup.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/siegfried-congratulates-erica-vandell-on-new-leadership-role-300587657.html
SOURCE The Siegfried Group, LLP