Chantilly, VA, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Associa Community Management Corporation’s (CMC) Airielle Hansford, CMCA®, AMS®, PCAM®, condominium division director, has been named as the 2018 vice president of Community Associations Institute - Washington Metropolitan Chapter board of directors (WMCCAI).
Ms. Hansford joined CMC in 2004 and has advanced quickly to become a valued executive leadership team member. She has managed a wide range of communities including condominiums, cooperatives, and homeowners associations. Most recently, Ms. Hansford served as the general manager at Watergate West, a cooperative located in the historic Watergate complex.
Ms. Hansford is a member of Community Association Institute and has earned her CMCA® (Certified Manager of Community Associations) and AMS® (Association Management Specialist) and PCAM® (Professional Community Association Manager) designations.
Ms. Hansford has been an active volunteer with WMCCAI since 2007 and was elected to serve on the board of directors in 2015 as well as treasurer in 2017. She has authored multiple articles for Quorum, WMCCAI’s monthly magazine, and has also served as a chairman of the Member Services Council and the Annual Awards Dinner Committee. Ms. Hansford was awarded the WMCCAI Rising Star Award in 2011.
“Airielle is knowledgeable, capable, and committed to providing exceptional service to our clients,” stated John Tsitos, Associa Community Management Corporation president. “Her strong leadership, attention to detail, and desire to assist others makes her an asset not only to our team but an asset to the WMCCAI board of directors. We could not be more proud of her accomplishments.”
With more than 180 branch offices across North America, Associa delivers unsurpassed management and lifestyle services to nearly five million residents worldwide. Our 10,000+ team members lead the industry with unrivaled education, expertise and trailblazing innovation. For more than 40 years, Associa has provided solutions designed to help communities achieve their vision. To learn more, visit www.associaonline.com .
Stay Connected:
Like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/associa
Subscribe to the Blog: https://hub.associaonline.com/
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/associa
Join us on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/associa
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/22c0d97a-3ab8-476a-913b-945c63fcafb8
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6d52cd89-36db-46c2-b446-b22ac0dbfdc5
Ashley S Cantwell Associa 214-272-4107 acantwell@associaonline.com
Source: Associa