CHARLOTTE, N.C., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- SentryOne today announced the promotion of two executives. Scott Allison, formerly Director of Sales, was promoted to Vice President of Sales. Scott Brooks, formerly Director of Customer Success, was named Vice President of Customer Success.
"Both of these leaders, whom we affectionately call "the Scotts," have worked together to grow and develop our business at an unprecedented rate in the past year," said Bob Potter, SentryOne CEO. "They each have played pivotal roles in our rapid growth and are central to our plans to continue our momentum well into the future."
As Vice President of Sales, Scott Allison will oversee the new business sales department and help in creating and implementing strategies to grow SentryOne products to both enterprise and mid-market customers globally.
Allison has more than 12 years of combined product and sales experience. He started his career as a business systems engineer and moved into product management for Iron Mountain Inc. before transitioning into a sales and sales management. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Bucknell University, and is married and has one daughter.
As Vice President of Customer Service, Scott Brooks will lead the SentryOne Client Services, IT Services, Professional Services and Customer Success Teams. Brooks will ensure SentryOne continues to deliver top-notch services internally and externally. The Company currently enjoys a Best-in-Class net promoter score 37 percent above industry average.
Brooks has more than 15 years of combined technical leadership experience ranging from consulting to hosting. During his career in hosting services, Brooks spent five years at Intercerve, the SentryOne founding company. Brooks graduated from Boston University Questrom School of Business, and is married and has one son.
SentryOne is a technology company whose award-winning solutions empower Microsoft data professionals to achieve breakthrough performance across physical, virtual and cloud environments. Its team includes an unprecedented eight Microsoft MVPs , individuals recognized by Microsoft for their subject matter expertise and community impact. Over the years, SentryOne has developed cutting-edge capabilities to optimize SQL Server performance , including its popular free query tool, Plan Explorer. The company was founded by Greg Gonzalez and Ken Teeter in 2004 as SQL Sentry LLC, and it employs more than 100 people in Charlotte.
Contact:
Jeanne Bernish
(704) 990-2242
189195@email4pr.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sentryone-promotes-allison-to-vice-president-of-sales-brooks-to-vice-president-of-customer-success-300586473.html
SOURCE SentryOne