REDWOOD CITY, Calif., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Equinix, Inc. (Nasdaq: EQIX), the global interconnection and data center company , today announced that it will hold its quarterly conference call on Wednesday, February 14 at 5:30 p.m. ET (2:30 p.m. PT). The company will discuss fourth quarter results for the period ended December 31, 2017, and the full year of 2017.
To hear the conference call live, please dial 1-517-308-9482 (domestic and international) and reference the passcode (EQIX). A simultaneous live webcast of the call will be available over the internet at Equinix.com under the Investor Relations heading. A replay of the call will be available one hour after the call through Wednesday, May 2, 2018, by dialing 203-369-1996 and entering passcode (2018). In addition, the webcast will be available on the company's website at www.equinix.com/investors (no password required).
About Equinix
Equinix, Inc. (Nasdaq: EQIX) connects the world's leading businesses to their customers, employees and partners inside the most interconnected data centers. In 48 markets across five continents, Equinix is where companies come together to realize new opportunities and accelerate their business, IT and cloud strategies. www.equinix.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from expectations discussed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the challenges of acquiring, operating and constructing IBX data centers and developing, deploying and delivering Equinix services; unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to the integration of companies we have acquired or will acquire into Equinix; a failure to receive significant revenue from customers in recently built out or acquired data centers; failure to complete any financing arrangements contemplated from time to time; competition from existing and new competitors; the ability to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds to repay new or outstanding indebtedness; the loss or decline in business from our key customers; and other risks described from time to time in Equinix filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, see recent Equinix quarterly and annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of which are available upon request from Equinix. Equinix does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking information contained in this press release.
Equinix and IBX are registered trademarks of Equinix, Inc. International Business Exchange is a trademark of Equinix, Inc.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/media-alert-equinix-sets-conference-call-for-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2017-financial-results-300583639.html
SOURCE Equinix, Inc.