WINONA, Minn., Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Fastenal Company (Nasdaq:FAST) announced the date and time for its conference call to review 2017 annual and fourth quarter results, as well as current operations. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet on Wednesday, January 17, 2018 at 9:00 a.m. central time.
To access the call, please visit the following Web address:
http://investor.fastenal.com/events.cfm
Our conference call presentation (which includes information, supplemental to that contained in our earnings announcement, regarding results for the quarter) will be available at 6:00 a.m., central time, on the day of the conference call. To access the presentation, please visit the following Web address: http://investor.fastenal.com/releases.cfm
An online archive of the broadcast will be available within one hour of the conclusion of the call and will remain available until March 1, 2018. Participants must have a soundcard and speakers to listen to the online broadcast.
Fastenal sells different types of industrial and construction supplies in the following product categories: threaded fasteners and miscellaneous supplies; tools; metal cutting tool blades and abrasives; fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power; material handling; storage and packaging products; janitorial, chemical and paint products; electrical supplies; welding supplies; safety supplies; metals, alloys and materials; and office supplies.
The company operates more than 2,950 in-market locations, including more than 2,350 branches and approximately 600 Onsite-style locations, located primarily in North America, with additional locations in Asia, Europe, Central and South America, and Africa. We supplement these locations with point-of-use replenishment solutions such as industrial vending and bin stocks (Fastenal Managed Inventory, or FMI). These local channels are supported by 14 distribution centers spanning North America: eleven in the United States (Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas) and three outside the U.S. (Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo León, Mexico).
Additional information regarding Fastenal is available on the Fastenal Company website at www.fastenal.com .
FAST-G
CONTACT:
Ellen Stolts
Financial Reporting & Regulatory Compliance Manager
507.313.7282
Source:Fastenal Company