LAS VEGAS, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR WIRE -- Costas, Inc. (OTC.PK:CSSI) (OTC:CSSI) is pleased to welcome Dr. Stephen L. Gomes, president of Gomes and Company and former Business Professor at SUNY- Stony Brook- Korea Campus and Maastricht School of Management- Netherlands , as Chief Operating Officer (COO) effective immediately.
Dr. Gomes has taught MBA Master’s degree courses in Startup Management, Technology Commercialization, Strategic Alliance and Joint-Venture Practices (Oregon Graduate Institute - now OHSU, State University of New York (SUNY-Stony Brook – Korea Campus) and Maastricht School of Management, Maastricht, Netherlands.
Recently, while in tenure at State University of New York at Korea, Dr. Gomes had the pleasure of hosting the famous Roger Ver , the Bitcoin.com co-founder and early investor of Bitcoin ( BTC ). Mr. Ver was the honored guest for the seminar in Dr. Gomes’s start-up management MBA econometrics classes in Incheon, Korea over a three-day period, where we lectured to a rapt student body forever changed by the experience.
COO, Dr. Gomes, brings the wisdom and operational experience to deploy the Authentatrade Crypto Exchange platform efficiently and quickly into the accelerating cryptocurrency market environment. Authentatrade has the systems, technology and customer base to operate as a direct global exchange, trading in the 24/7 cryptocurrency markets. The goal for Costas is to generate high profits through targeting customers in underserved regions and niches of trade. The difference in exchange provider transaction fees ranges from .5% to 10 %, depending on the markets served and quality of services available.
“This is the only time in history that deft organization and quickly accurate execution permits a start-up business to scale to a global enterprise in weeks;” said Dr. Gomes, COO of Costas, Inc. “Authentatrade’s exchange platform technology gives Costas execution power to immediately occupy territory in specifically targeted markets where our presence is well received.”
Dr. Gomes provides facility to convert market opportunities into full-scale business operations to generate revenues from daily business into quarterly profits. Costas is now quarterly focused.
Below is a Summary of Dr. Stephen Gomes extensive business background:
Dr. Gomes earned a Ph.D. in Public Management and International Relations from the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs fully funded on a NASA Ph.D. fellowship.
His early career was in executive management positions with large international companies with senior responsibility for contracts with government leaders, royal family members and large corporations such as ARAMCO in Saudi Arabia and Mitsubishi Corporation in Japan. His executive duties have included extended assignments in France, Greece, China, Malaysia, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Russia, Brazil and Holland.
Dr. Gomes has helped client organizations develop over 30 strategic alliances and joint ventures including the following: developed and negotiated more than 15 public/private high-tech co-development strategic alliance agreements between major U.S. companies, universities and the Federal Research Labs with a total value of $160 million; five major supplier alliance agreements with values up to $15 million for two major U.S. Oil Companies; long term real estate asset management outsourcing alliance agreement with values up to $1 billion in real estate asset value; set up multi-party manufacturing alliance with major big three air bag manufacturing firm; assisted IBM to develop five outsourcing alliances with technology providers for the master Information Technology health care system contract for the Province of Alberta; supported negotiations and alliance discussions on behalf of 15 U.S. corporations and multinational companies with combined assets up to $10 million for each agreement.
Currently, Dr. Gomes manages Gomes & Company, which is a boutique executive consulting firm engaged in a broad range of domestic and international multi-party consulting assignments mostly focused on high tech and finance start-ups, joint venture planning, strategy planning and execution, organization problem solving and specialized business plan strategy and development. For several years, his firm’s main clients were Fortune 500 companies working with the Warren Company based in Providence, Rhode Island. While in San Francisco, Dr. Gomes managed the West Coast operation where he was responsible for assisting large corporate clients in the creation and implementation of strategic business alliances, facilitated technology transfer, the formation of technology co-development alliances, R&D consortia and joint ventures. He was instrumental in helping to bring in one of the firm’s largest clients, Andersen Consulting which became Accenture Corporation. Before being retained by the Warren Company, he was CEO of American Technology Initiative (Am Tech, Inc.), a non-profit corporation, co-founded by NASA and the private sector, based in Silicon Valley dedicated to the implementation of public-private technology development alliances and partnerships between universities, federal research labs and the private sector. Clients included NASA, Los Alamos, Cal-Tech, Boeing, and Sandia labs.
Dr. Gomes is active in a number of non-profit activities and boards. He has served in the past as a director on the National Board of Advisers for the Peace Corps and the Virginia Satir Foundation. He currently is also a fellow of the Innovation Creativity and Capital Institute ( IC2 ) of the Business School at the University of Texas at Austin, which just met in April 2017 in Austin. This is a group of international business thought leaders and professors (originally assembled by Dr. George Kozmetsky who received the National Medal of Honor from President Clinton for being the father of the Austin Technolgy Hub) who participate in the University of Texas Business School annual leadership strategy conference sessions by invitation only.
Finally Dr. Gomes is an aviation enthusiast and has been flying airplanes since he was 12 years old. At one time he was the youngest pilot in the United States. Howard Hughes hired him for his aviation expertise and knowledge of local Las Vegas flying conditions and politics. At the age of 25, Gomes was put in charge of planning a new $650 million airport for Las Vegas to replace McCarran Field which was to be built at Howard Hughes expense and turned over to Las Vegas at his cost. Later in his career Dr. Gomes used that experience with two other companies to participate in the planning of 12 major new international airports around the globe over a 20 year period.
About COSTAS (CSSI): http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/CSSI/profile
COSTAS INC. is a publicly traded company on the OTC Markets under the symbol ‘CSSI’. Costas Inc. invests in early stage Digital Currency projects. We believe strongly in the growth of Distributed Asset Technology and its integration into Financial Technologies (FINTech. Distributed Networks are the next massive internet investment market, as social media was 10 years ago. Costas Inc. strongly believes that a Distribu