ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Tolan Group is announcing promotions as it launches its aggressive 2018-2020 growth strategy. Diana Ramsay, who leads the Behavioral Health, Human Services and Substance Abuse practice has been named President of the firm and is responsible for the firm's growth strategy. Kaye Johnson has been named as Chief Operating Officer and will be responsible for all operations and execution.
"Diana is an amazing executive who has significant expertise in growing and scaling multiple organizations spanning over two decades. She is a thought leader in behavioral health, human services and substance abuse and we are thrilled to have her leading all growth initiatives of the firm," said Timothy J Tolan, CEO of The Tolan Group. "It is phenomenal to have the opportunity to transform 20 years of executive experience into helping CEOs find a solution to what is arguably their most critical undertaking. In this new role I look forward to drawing from my experience to scale the growth of The Tolan Group," said Diana Ramsay.
"Kaye Johnson has extensive experience in driving our search execution and the overall day to day operations of the firm. I am excited to have Kaye managing our day to day operations knowing she will do an outstanding job," added Tolan."The Tolan Group's strategy has never been more compelling as we continue to master our craft in finding our clients the best talent in the shortest amount of time. I am honored to have the pleasure of working with Tim, Diana and the team to realize our highest of aspirations for the company," said Kaye Johnson.
The mission of The Tolan Group is to be the preferred source of retained executive search and interim consulting services for our clients and candidates serving the healthcare, behavioral health/human services, substance abuse and life sciences markets.
Having served the recruiting needs of business and industry since 1959, Sanford Rose Associates is one of the oldest and largest recruiting firms in the United States. For more information please contact Carolyn Denman at 904-875-4787, or by email at cdenman@sanfordrose.com .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-tolan-group-announces-promotions-300577722.html
SOURCE The Tolan Group