HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Northwest Federal Credit Union recently hired Sonia Ordenes White as its Senior Vice President of Talent Management and Development following the retirement of Phyllis Ziakas, who was with the credit union for 15 years and served as the Senior Vice President over Human Resources.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005366/en/
Sonia Ordenes White (Photo: Business Wire)
“We are delighted to welcome Sonia to Northwest Federal, where she will be leading our Talent Management and Development teams and championing our commitment to employee engagement,” said Northwest Federal’s President and CEO, Jeff Bentley. “We thank Phyllis for her invaluable contributions to the executive team and the credit union as a whole, and we wish her the best as she begins this exciting new chapter in her life.”
Ordenes White was previously the Director of Human Resources for Bank-Fund Staff Federal Credit Union in Washington, D.C. where she spent 20+ years in human resources after obtaining a Master’s Degrees in Human Resources Management from Marymount University. Ordenes White brings experience, education and the drive to serve in a leadership role with a service-oriented corporate culture.
“Northwest Federal's commitment to serving its employees, members and the community is the reason I chose to take this next step in my career in the field of human resources,” said Ordenes White. “I look forward to building upon Northwest Federal's Why to serve and inspire to transform lives through my experience and expertise.”
About Northwest Federal Credit Union
Northwest Federal Credit Union is a full-service financial institution ranking among the largest credit unions in Virginia and in the top 60 credit unions in the nation. Established in 1947 and headquartered in Herndon, Va., Northwest Federal's Why is to serve and inspire to transform lives. The Credit Union currently serves more than 250,000 members and has assets in excess of $3.3 billion. For more information, visit www.nwfcu.org or connect with us on Facebook , Twitter or LinkedIn .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005366/en/
Northwest Federal Credit Union
Kristen Soller
Manager Event and Communication Strategy
571-585-0700
ksoller@nwfcu.org
Source: Northwest Federal Credit Union