OSHKOSH, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Oshkosh Corporation (NYSE: OSK), a leading manufacturer of specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies, will issue its first quarter fiscal 2018 financial results on Thursday, January 25, 2018. The results will be discussed during a live webcast that day beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET. To access the webcast, investors should go to www.oshkoshcorporation.com at least 15 minutes prior to the event. Slides for the webcast will be available on the website the morning of January 25.
About Oshkosh Corporation
Founded in 1917, Oshkosh Corporation is more than 100 years strong and continues to make a difference in people’s lives. Oshkosh brings together a unique set of integrated capabilities and diverse end markets that, when combined with the Company’s MOVE strategy and positive long-term outlook, illustrate why Oshkosh is a different integrated global industrial. The Company is a leader in designing, manufacturing and servicing a broad range of access equipment, commercial, fire & emergency, military and specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies under the brands of Oshkosh®, JLG®, Pierce®, McNeilus®, Jerr-Dan®, Frontline™, CON-E-CO®, London® and IMT®.
Today, Oshkosh Corporation is a Fortune 500 Company with manufacturing operations on four continents. Its products are recognized around the world for quality, durability and innovation and can be found in more than 150 countries around the globe. As a different integrated global industrial, Oshkosh is committed to making a difference for team members, customers, shareholders, communities and the environment. For more information, please visit www.oshkoshcorporation.com .
® , ™ All brand names referred to in this news release are trademarks of Oshkosh Corporation or its subsidiary companies.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005437/en/
Oshkosh Corporation
Financial:
Patrick Davidson
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
920.966.5939
or
Media:
Bryan Brandt
Vice President, Global Branding & Communications
920.966.5982
Source: Oshkosh Corporation