NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- iDEKO Productions, Experiential Marketing & Events Agency, appoints David J. Knee as Director, Business Development. Knee, who brings over eight years of experiential marketing expertise to the position, will be based in New York City reporting to Managing Partner & Chief Executive Officer, Evan Korn.
In this role, David will be responsible for cultivating new brand and agency relationships, as well as marketing the agency's full capability set across all industries to drive revenue growth. In addition, he will play a key role in identifying and establishing relationships with unique venues across the country as well as navigating permitting and regulatory compliance.
"We are very excited to have David join us at iDEKO Productions. David brings a fresh and unique perspective to building and acquiring new client relationships and will be instrumental in helping us solidify our position as a top experiential production agency across all industry verticals. The combination of his experience, strong relationships, and operational expertise make David the perfect addition to our leadership team."
Most recently Knee served as Business Operations and Development Manager for Production Glue. During his tenure, David secured several multi-million-dollar projects with new and existing clients and negotiated complex deals both internationally in China as well as across the US. His extensive knowledge of venues and a passion for finding unique, raw, spaces led to many preferred vendor relationships for the agency and exceptional events for his Fortune 500 clients.
"I'm very excited to be joining the iDEKO team. I look forward to continuing to develop relationships with new and old clients, discovering unique and innovative venues, and executing exciting, cutting-edge projects and events," said Knee.
David can be reached at (212) 532-7800 x 522 / David@idekoproductions.com
ABOUT IDEKO
iDEKO Productions is a full-service experiential marketing and events agency specializing in helping clients plan and produce large-scale events and marketing projects, focusing on innovative ways to create engaging live experiences. The agency aids clients through the entire event process from ideation to completion including planning, design, logistics, securing event permits, budgeting, production, custom fabrications and mobile marketing.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nyc-agency-ideko-productions-taps-david-j-knee-as-director-business-development-300582908.html
SOURCE iDEKO Productions