NASHVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- edjuster, North America’s leading provider of SaaS-based software and services to the property contents insurance marketplace , today announced it has completed its acquisition of Contents Inventory Services (CIS) a leading California-based provider of services to the property contents insurance marketplace. This transaction supports edjuster’s acceleration of the delivery of its ‘Total Contents’ services--covering all aspects of contents, from start to finish.
Additionally, this acquisition supports edjuster’s initiative to provide a full range of contents services to the California property claims market. The acquisition strengthens edjuster’s market positioning through combined assets and resources, consistently underscored with the benefit of improved performance (Performance Excellence Guarantee) to scale with increasing volumes. Existing CIS customers will benefit from industry-leading standardization, guaranteed performance on claims, SaaS usage and new innovation for greater accuracy, and streamlining of all core services.
“After a lengthy due diligence phase, we are pleased to complete the CIS acquisition. edjuster’s mission is to offer the most modern, innovative and complete approach to contents claims in the North American property contents insurance marketplace," said Andy Williams, edjuster’s CEO. "We are excited to expand our footprint in the important California market, while combining our shared resources and assets."
"We are pleased to bring edjusters' innovation to our clientele, while streamlining our existing services," said Ron Oates, President, CIS. "We look forward to working with edjuster's leadership team to deliver even more innovative solutions to our US customers, at a pace faster than ever before."
ABOUT EDJUSTER
edjuster is North America’s leading provider of SaaS-based software and services to the property contents insurance marketplace, offering insurers and their policyholders the assurance of performance excellence guaranteed on claims services—leveraging a combination of people and technology. edjuster offers a suite of customizable services, providing end-to-end solutions for all types and sizes of contents claims, from outsourcing support services to software as a service (SaaS) of its exclaim contents valuation platform. Our non-partisan, performance excellence guaranteed approach consistently contributes to enhancing the image and reputation of our insurer clients and ensures that policyholders remain satisfied and loyal.
edjuster Inc.
Karen McNaughton
PR & Media Consultant
Mobile: 613-266-4597
kmcnaughton@e-djuster.ca
Source: edjuster Inc.