TAMPA, Fla., Jan. 12, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- CTI has hired Dr. Manoj Pawar, former acting Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for Catholic Health Initiatives (CHI), as its new CMO.
At CHI, Dr. Pawar was responsible for overseeing quality of care and hospital medicine service line for 102 hospitals in 19 states, 503,000 annual admissions, $23B in assets and $15.2B in operating revenue.
According to Dr. Pawar, one of his most rewarding experiences at CHI was leading and developing its 900-provider hospitalist organization.
“We’re very fortunate to have Dr. Pawar join our team,” CTI CEO Mo Kasti said.
“He brings a deeper perspective, not only as an executive but as a physician, so we will be able to better engage with our client-partners.”
Dr. Pawar is also a graduate of CTI’s Physician Leadership Institute.
“His physician leadership experience and previous relationship with CTI make him a great addition to the team. We’re fortunate that he was our partner as we collaborated with CHI to transform healthcare through physician leadership,” Kasti said.
“He understands the mission. He believes in the mission.”
Dr. Pawar’s responsibilities as CMO will include client engagement, executive coaching, and new services development.
"I’m passionate about improving the health status of populations. While many share in this passion, the journey is challenging, and requires significant transformation, particularly for physician leaders,” Dr. Pawar said.
“CTI is unique in bringing the deep expertise necessary for meaningful transformation, helping organizations build the strategic, cultural, and leadership capacity needed for the journey. I’m thrilled to be a part of the CTI team!"
About CTI - CTI is a transformation company. We partner with clients to achieve success through five foundational practices – leadership, culture, strategy, innovation and performance. Using our exclusive terrain-based approach, CTI customizes its engagements for the client's unique terrain resulting in significant, sustainable and measurable improvements. CTI specializes in healthcare, education and information technology industries.
For more information contact:
CTI
Julie Bedford
813.333.1401
jbedford@ctileadership.com
Source:Center For TransformationandInnovation LLC