Las Vegas, NV , Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --
CLS Holdings USA, Inc. (OTCQB: CLSH) “CLS,” a development stage diversified cannabis company operating as Cannabis Life Science, today announced comments from Oasis Cannabis on Nevada’s continuation of delivery services of marijuana to local residents.
Oasis Cannabis has been successfully operating a delivery service to medical patients since opening in 2015, and adult-use marijuana to residents since last August.
The State of Nevada has approved new rules for the local cannabis industry, which include allowing delivery services to continue operating. The Nevada state legislative committee is expected to formally adopt the regulations into law in the next several weeks.
Interviewed on local news, Ben Sillitoe, CEO and Co-Founder of Oasis Cannabis, commented, "Delivery service has been a part of our business model since inception and is really about convenience for the consumer. Our internal process and systems have been designed for safe and convenient same day delivery service.”
http://www.lasvegasnow.com/news/marijuana-home-delivery-services-will-continue/922035173
Oasis Cannabis is a fully integrated cannabis operation in Nevada. Las Vegas-based Oasis Cannabis’ ( http://oasiscannabis.com ) operations include a grow, extraction, conversion and processing facility, and a retail dispensary. CLS has now executed a definitive agreement to acquire the Oasis Cannabis companies. A non-refundable cash deposit has been paid by CLS. The closing of the transaction, which is subject to the satisfaction of conditions, is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2018.
About Oasis Cannabis ( http://oasiscannabis.com )
Oasis Cannabis has operated a cannabis dispensary in the Las Vegas market since dispensaries first opened in Nevada in 2015 and has been recognized as one of the top marijuana retailers in the state. Its location within walking distance to the Las Vegas Strip and Downtown Las Vegas in combination with its delivery service to residents allows it to efficiently serve both locals and tourists in the Las Vegas area. The company recently commenced wholesale offerings of cannabis in Nevada with the launch of its City Trees brand of cannabis concentrates and cannabis-infused products in August 2017. An expansion of its cultivation and production facility is currently underway and is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2018.
Disclaimer
CLS Holdings USA has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Oasis Cannabis, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018. See CLS Holdings USA’s filings with the SEC for additional details.
About CLS Holdings USA
CLS Holdings USA, Inc. (OTCQB: CLSH) plans to become a diversified cannabis company and is shifting its corporate strategy to becoming a fully licensed integrated cannabis producer and retailer in Nevada and other western states. Its strategy and business model will be similar to Canopy Growth (WEED.TO), Aurora Cannabis (ACB.TO) and GB Sciences (GBLX).
CLS stands for "Cannabis Life Sciences," in recognition of the Company's patent pending proprietary method of extracting various cannabinoids from the marijuana plant and converting them into products with a higher level of quality and consistency. The Company's business model includes licensing operations, processing operations, processing facilities, sale of products, brand creation and consulting services.
Twitter: @CLSHusa
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to anticipated future events, future results of operations or future financial performance. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to whether certain transactions will be completed, the terms of such transactions, the descriptions of the companies and the business that any potential target companies could bring to CLS Holdings. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "intends," "expects," "plans," "goals," "projects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, are uncertain and involve substantial known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, levels of activity or performance to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity or performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity or performance and we cannot guaranty that the proposed transactions described in this press release will occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they were made. These cautionary statements should be considered together with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we may issue in the future. Except as required by applicable law, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to reflect actual results, later events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
CLS Holdings USA has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Oasis Cannabis, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018. See CLS Holdings USA filing with the SEC for additional details.
Contact Information Corporate: Chairman and CEO Jeff Binder jeff@clsholdingsinc.com 888-438-9132 Investors: Hayden IR CLSH@haydenir.com 917-658-7878
Source: CLS Holdings USA, Inc.