BRIDGEWATER, N.J., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Valeritas Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:VLRX), a medical technology company which offers patients with type 2 diabetes V-Go ® Wearable Insulin Delivery device , a simple, affordable, all-in-one insulin delivery option that is worn like a patch and can eliminate the need for taking multiple daily shots, today announced the appointment of Mr. Joseph Saldanha as the Company's Chief Business Officer, effective January 29, 2018. In this newly created role, Mr. Saldanha will report to John Timberlake, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
“V-Go use is accelerating in the United States as our higher-service commercial model and patient education programs continue to demonstrate their effectiveness. Mr. Saldanha is the ideal addition to our management team and he shares our commitment to helping the millions of patients with type 2 diabetes reduce the need to take multiple daily injections,” said Mr. Timberlake. “His experience and knowledge of the U.S. and international diabetes market as well as his broad experience with diabetes drugs and devices, will be a great asset to Valeritas."
Mr. Saldanha brings more than 25 years of medical technology and pharmaceutical experience to Valeritas, including extensive diabetes expertise. Most recently, Mr. Saldanha held the position of Vice President, Marketing and Business Development at MannKind Corporation. Prior to that, he had domestic and international roles at Gulf Pharmaceuticals Industries - Julphar, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb in commercial, corporate and business development, alliance management, and manufacturing management.
Mr. Saldanha earned a Bachelor of Science in Commerce and Engineering Sciences from Drexel University and a Master of Science in Organizational Management from the University of Pennsylvania.
About Valeritas Holdings, Inc.
Valeritas is a commercial-stage medical technology company focused on improving health and simplifying life for people with diabetes by developing and commercializing innovative technologies. Valeritas’ flagship product, V-Go ® Wearable Insulin Delivery device, is a simple, affordable, all-in-one basal-bolus insulin delivery option for patients with type 2 diabetes that is worn like a patch and can eliminate the need for taking multiple daily shots. V-Go administers a continuous preset basal rate of insulin over 24 hours and it provides discreet on-demand bolus dosing at mealtimes. It is the only basal-bolus insulin delivery device on the market today specifically designed keeping in mind the needs of patients with type 2 diabetes. Headquartered in Bridgewater, New Jersey, Valeritas operates its R&D functions in Marlborough, Massachusetts.
More information is available at www.valeritas.com and our Twitter feed @Valeritas_US, www.twitter.com/Valeritas_US .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements. Statements in this press release that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, among other things, references to Valeritas technologies, business and product development plans and market information. Actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors. Such factors include, among others, the ability to raise the additional funding needed to continue to pursue Valeritas’ business and product development plans, the inherent uncertainties associated with developing new products or technologies, the ability to commercialize the V-Go ® Wearable Insulin Delivery device with limited resources, competition in the industry in which Valeritas operates and overall market conditions. Any forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this press release, and Valeritas assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Investors should consult all of the information set forth herein and should also refer to the risk factor disclosure set forth in the reports and other documents Valeritas files with the SEC available at www.sec.gov .
Investor Contacts:
Lynn Pieper Lewis or Greg Chodaczek
Gilmartin Group
610-368-6505
ir@valeritas.com
Media Contact:
Kevin Knight
Knight Marketing Communications, Ltd.
(206) 451-4823
pr@valeritas.com
Source:Valeritas, Inc.