MISSION VIEJO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Partners Bank of California (“Partners Bank”) (OTC: PBKX) has announced the addition of Kent Falk as President and Chief Credit Officer. Rick Mandelbaum will continue as Chief Executive Officer and member of the bank’s Board of Directors.
Kent Falk comes to Partners with over 40 years of experience in bank management and leadership which has included serving as President and CEO of South County Bank in Irvine, California.
“Rick and I have known each other for over 5 years now, and when the opportunity for us to work together came up, I jumped at it,” says Kent Falk. “It is great to be with Partners and this team of outstanding banking professionals, helping to lead the bank to continued growth and unparalleled service to our customers. When you realize Partners’ excellent track record, performance, asset growth, resources and overall capabilities, the future for this bank truly looks bright. I’m glad to be a part of it.”
A lifelong resident of Southern California, Kent Falk is a graduate of California State University at Long Beach with a degree in Managerial Finance. He also graduated from the RMA-Stonier Banking School in 2009. Kent’s past and current community involvement includes volunteer leadership and board positions with Child Guidance Center (Chair), Family Assistance Ministries, Rotary, Mission San Juan Capistrano Finance Council, Holy Trinity Catholic Church Finance Committee, Community Economic Development Lending Initiative, and South County Community Clinic (El Camino Health Center).
Continuing as CEO at Partners Bank, Rick Mandelbaum will oversee the bank’s strategic plan for growth. “We have a great story to tell here at Partners, and we look forward to Kent being an integral part of that story,” says Rick Mandelbaum. “We’re continuing to build on ten years of growth and success. Adding Kent to our team brings a heightened level of energy and leadership to all of our initiatives and services to our clients.”
Founded in 2007, Partners Bank of California provides a wide array of personal and commercial banking services as well as a variety of business lending solutions including lines of credit, commercial real estate, new construction financing, equipment/industrial and SBA/State Government guaranteed loans. Headquartered in Mission Viejo, California, Partners Bank is proud to serve clientele throughout Southern California.
Partners Bank of California… connect with success!
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006631/en/
Partners Bank of California
Matthew Terry
Vice President, Marketing Officer & Media Relations
Direct: (949) 732-4052
mterry@partnersbankca.com
www.partnersbankca.com
Source: Partners Bank of California