Firm Strengthens Offerings and Increases Focus on Public Sector Organizations
AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bridgepoint Consulting , an Addison Group company and Texas-based leader in finance, IT and management consulting services, announced the addition of Vijay George as Director of its Technology Consulting practice. In this role, George will be responsible for leading strategic efforts to support public sector organizations with a broad range of digital transformation initiatives, including IT strategy and planning, assessments, technology optimization, systems integration and cloud migration.
George is a strategic and digital transformation leader with more than two decades of executive and technology leadership experience. He has a strong background leading executives and IT teams through effective strategic planning processes. George has led transformational initiatives designed to increase growth and efficiency for organizations in a wide variety of sectors including utilities, state and local government, IT services and manufacturing.
Most recently, he provided independent strategic consulting services. Prior to that, George was the CIO/CTO and Director of Innovation & Technology for the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts, where his teams managed operations and IT systems for the $100B+ state government. He also led the statewide ERP modernization initiative, as well as government transparency programs and security and privacy improvement efforts for the agency.
“With the addition of Vijay to our Technology leadership team, Bridgepoint is well-positioned to better serve organizations in all industries as they become more digitally focused,” said Michael Johnson, Principal at Bridgepoint. “Vijay’s deep roots in the public sector and extensive expertise will be invaluable to our clients as they look to transform their operations.”
George earned a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University, a Master of Science in Software Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin and an MBA from St. Edwards University. Currently, he serves as the chapter president for Austin SIM and on the St. Edward’s University Business School advisory board.
“I’m excited to join Bridgepoint, a firm that is truly on the cutting edge in helping organizations implement digital strategies to remain effective in this new digital era,” said George. “I look forward to helping our clients develop and implement strategies and businesses processes that will enable their success.”
Bridgepoint Consulting’s Technology Consulting practice specializes in designing and implementing innovative solutions that allow organizations to grow and scale efficiently. From ERP implementation and integrations to IT strategy, systems integration and cloud migration, the firm offers solutions to help organizations leverage technology to drive transformation. Learn more about our offerings at www.bridgepointconsulting.com/technology .
About Bridgepoint Consulting
Bridgepoint Consulting, an Addison Group company, is a leading management consulting firm that helps organizations throughout their business lifecycle. Offering a broad range of finance, technology and risk/compliance services, Bridgepoint supports clients from the startup phase all the way to IPO readiness and beyond. Since 1999, the firm has been helping executives and management teams reduce their business and operational risks, bridge resource gaps and improve overall performance. Whether an organization needs interim expertise to improve infrastructure and processes, or strategic management of a major transition or transaction, Bridgepoint’s team of industry leaders is able to provide the critical support needed to ensure success. The firm is headquartered in Austin, with offices in Dallas and Houston and the capability to deliver solutions across the US. Learn more at www.BridgepointConsulting.com .
About Addison Group
Addison Group is a leading provider of professional staffing and permanent placement services for Information Technology, Finance & Accounting, Executive Search, Healthcare, HR & Administrative, and Engineering. Addison’s strengths are its strong management and executive teams, a relationship-focused selling strategy, a history with clients of delivering the right candidate at the right time, and a loyal candidate base. With 22 offices in cities across the United States, Addison Group offers a national reach with a localized touch. Learn more at www.addisongroup.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005281/en/
Bridgepoint Consulting
Gina Budd, 512-437-7919
gbudd@bridgepointconsulting.com
Source: Bridgepoint Consulting