2018 Plans Underscored by 70 Percent Growth in 2017
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- High Road Ice Cream, the fastest growing maker of premium ice cream, coming off a year in which the company grew by seventy percent, announced the following new hires to support strong continued growth in 2018:
Stephen Corradini, formerly Vice President of Whole Foods Market South Region, as Chief People & Strategy Officer. Arthur Reynolds, formerly Associate Coordinator of Grocery of Whole Foods Market, as Director of Sales & Category Management.
Arthur and Stephen served at Whole Foods for more than 30 years combined, playing critical roles in growing Whole Foods’ business in the southeast and national markets.
“I am deeply honored and very excited to join the High Road team,” said Stephen. “When I first met Keith in 2011, I quickly became an advocate of his vision for a company with a deep commitment to quality and innovative thinking that also gives back to its stakeholders. That vision hasn’t changed, and I am thrilled to be able to help High Road continue to evolve and succeed.”
Other team member announcements include:
Owens Corning and Danaher senior finance leader Joel Johnson as Director of Finance and Controller. Justine Zarch, formerly a marketing executive with Rollins, Inc., as Chief of Staff. Retained Mark Feinberg, a former High Road board member and advisor as High Road’s full-time Chief Operating Officer.
Key highlights from 2017 include:
Expansion into numerous grocery chains, including Stop & Shop, Wakefern, and Safeway. For the second consecutive year, being named to the Inc. 5000 (#1176); fastest-growing super premium ice cream company on the list. Became the manufacturer of record for two major retailers’ private label ice cream programs. The introduction of its ice cream sandwich lineup in 2018; the first of what is expected in a line of new and exciting High Road novelty products. A 50,000 square-feet expansion adjacent to their current facility, which will support growth plants to achieve a $100MM run rate in the next 36 months.
With continued growth on the horizon for High Road, 2018 is also poised to be an interesting year for the grocery and retail industries overall.
“There’s no doubt that consumer mindset and expectations are shifting rapidly,” commented Keith Schroeder, CEO and Founder of High Road Ice Cream. “One aspect we’re interested in is the perception of value. On one hand, consumers are demanding that companies go above and beyond in terms of quality. On the other hand, they want more value for their money. This value equation, along with other mindset shifts, creates an interesting dynamic for the food industry and beyond.”
“For us, it means remaining true to our core values and culinary approach,” remarked Keith. “We place a strong emphasis on quality by making everything from scratch and will without a doubt continue to do so. At the same time, our scale and increasingly mature manufacturing processes allow us to deliver quality products at a fair price. We’re adding new sales channels, new product lines, and most excitingly, new team members. We are excited about 2018 and what’s to come.”
About High Road Craft Ice Cream, Inc.:
Founded in 2010, High Road Craft Ice Cream is America’s fastest growing independent ice cream manufacturer. The company produces ultra-premium frozen dessert products for retail and foodservice, both branded and private label. High Road operates out of a 75,000 square-foot, SQF Level III manufacturing plant in Marietta, Georgia.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005497/en/
High Road Ice Cream
Nicki Schroeder, 678-701-7623
nicki@highroadcraft.com
Source: High Road Ice Cream