ENGLEWOOD, Colo., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WOW! Internet, Cable & Phone (NYSE: WOW) today announced that David Brunick will join the company as the Chief Human Resources Officer. Brunick will start his position on February 6 th , 2018 and will report to Teresa Elder, CEO of WOW!.
Brunick comes to WOW! with more than 30 years of human resources management experience in the cable and telecommunications industry. Most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Adelphia Communications, Brunick oversaw more than 14,000 employees. Previously, Brunick served as Senior Vice President-Human Resources for AT&T Broadband with responsibility for the human resources function for 40,000 employees. He has also previously served as Vice President-Human Resources for MediaOne domestic broadband business.
Earlier roles included human resources leadership positions in US West Media Group, US West Communications, and Goodwill Industries of Denver. In addition to his broad human resources background, Brunick has several years of experience in the mental health field, most recently as CEO of Maria Droste Counseling Center, a mental health agency.
"David's extensive industry experience and significant record of leadership in all aspects of the human resources function will bring an invaluable capability to WOW! as we build a high performance organization powered by an engaged, innovative and diverse workforce," said Teresa Elder, CEO of WOW!.
Brunick holds a Master's degree in Management and Organizations and a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of Colorado. In addition, he is a Doctor of Behavioral Health and has a Master's degree in Marriage, Family and Child Therapy.
For more information on WOW!'s management team, visit http://www.wowway.com/experience/management-team .
About WOW! Internet, Cable & Phone
WOW! is one of the nation's leading broadband providers, with a service area that passes over three million residential, business and wholesale consumers. WOW! provides service in 19 markets, primarily in the Midwest and Southeast, including Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, Maryland, Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Florida and Georgia. With an expansive portfolio of advanced services including high-speed Internet services, cable TV, phone, business data, voice, and cloud services, the company is dedicated to providing outstanding service at affordable prices. Visit wowway.com for more information.
About WOW! Business
WOW! Business provides data, Internet, voice and cloud services to business and wholesale customers in Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, Maryland and the Southeast. The company is dedicated to delighting customers with friendly, quality service at affordable prices. For more information, please visit www.wowforbusiness.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wow-appoints-david-brunick-as-chief-human-resources-officer-300590049.html
SOURCE WOW! Internet, Cable & Phone