SAN DIEGO, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Classy, creator of world-class online fundraising solutions, announced today that Carilu Dietrich has joined the company as Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), responsible for overseeing and scaling the company's marketing initiatives.
Dietrich most recently led corporate marketing at Atlassian, the team collaboration software company behind JIRA, Confluence, Bitbucket, and HipChat. Recruited to the senior leadership team in 2013, Dietrich rapidly built out a marketing foundation that helped propel Atlassian to become one of the most successful tech IPOs of 2015, raising $460 million and valuing the company at $4.4 billion. During Dietrich's tenure leading corporate marketing, Atlassian tripled revenue.
While at Atlassian, Dietrich, along with executives from Salesforce and Rally, co-founded Pledge 1%, an organization that encourages entrepreneurs and companies to pledge one percent of equity, profit, product, or employee time to make the world a better place. Dietrich is still an active board member for Pledge 1%, which has seen swift growth in four years to include more than 4,000 member companies in 90 countries.
" Classy joined the Pledge 1% movement back in 2015, not knowing how that would come full-circle for us as we welcome Carilu to the team," said Scot Chisholm, Classy's CEO and Co-Founder. "Her innate passion for philanthropy, proven leadership, and seasoned marketing expertise will help shape and elevate the success of Classy and our customers."
Prior to Atlassian, Dietrich was the Senior Director of Awareness Advertising for Oracle, where she ran global advertising across dozens of airports around the world, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, and on new ad formats for the very first iPads. Named one of Brand Innovator's "40 under 40" in 2013, she also oversaw the brand advertising components of Oracle's many sports sponsorships, including the Warrior's Oracle Arena and Oracle Team USA in the America's Cup.
"Web and mobile technologies have changed nearly every facet of our lives—but charitable giving is still catching up," said Dietrich. "Only eight percent of charitable donations are given online today. Many nonprofits are trying to rapidly accumulate the skills and technology required to connect with their tech-savvy donors, so I'm thrilled to be working for Classy, the leader in online and mobile fundraising, at such a critical inflection point in the market. It's a dream to help thousands—maybe someday millions—of organizations raise the money they need to tackle the world's biggest problems."
About Classy
Classy is a social enterprise that creates world-class online fundraising tools for nonprofits, modernizing the giving experience to accelerate social impact around the world. Since 2011, fundraising on the Classy platform has doubled each year—resulting in thousands of nonprofits collectively raising over half a billion dollars. Based in San Diego, CA, Classy is trusted by organizations of all sizes, from the fastest-growing nonprofits like Team Rubicon and The Trevor Project, to some of the world's largest social organizations, such as Acumen Fund, Robin Hood Foundation, and Shriners Hospital for Children. Classy also hosts the annual Classy Awards to spotlight the innovative work nonprofits are implementing around the globe. Backed by prominent technology investors, including JMI Equity, Mithril, Salesforce Ventures, and Bullpen Capital, Classy has raised $53 million to-date in growth capital. For more information, visit www.classy.org or follow Classy on Twitter @Classy.
CONTACT:
Monica Finch
mfinch@classy.org
619.323.2026
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/former-atlassian-marketing-head-pledge-1-co-founder-joins-classy-as-chief-marketing-officer-300589885.html
SOURCE Classy