NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Bottomless Closet today announced that Melissa Worth, president of Perry Ellis at Perry Ellis International, has joined its Board of Directors.
“We are thrilled to have Melissa join our Board,” said Bottomless Closet Executive Director Melissa Norden. “To have a woman in such an esteemed leadership role at a major fashion brand is an incredible source of inspiration for us. Combined with her passion for empowering women, we know she will be an invaluable resource for our organization.”
Worth became the President of Perry Ellis in 2017, where she is responsible for driving the overall brand strategy by leading sales, merchandising, planning and other divisions that factor into the brand’s growing success. In her eleven years at Perry Ellis, Worth cultivated the brand’s relationships with key retail partners and built a team that shares the same drive and passion she holds for the menswear company.
“Inside and outside of the workplace, I’ve always strived to be an advocate for women. It’s an honor to join Bottomless Closet in their mission to provide women with the tools they need to succeed,” said Worth. “I am eager to work with the many talented and dedicated women already serving this distinguished organization.”
Prior to joining Perry Ellis, Worth held leadership positions at Puma and TJX, which included an immersive executive training program. An industry veteran, Worth first discovered her inherent passion for retail when she held positions as Store Manager at Esprit and Filene’s.
Melissa Worth holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Miami and sits on its President’s Council. Worth is also a sponsor for the New York Fashion Tech Lab, which connects women-led fashion focused technology companies with leading fashion retailers and brands. She is also a mentor for WOMEN Unlimited, Inc., as well as a judge for the YMA Fashion Scholarship Fund.
About Bottomless Closet
Founded in 1999, Bottomless Closet is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation whose mission is to be the connection that inspires and guides disadvantaged New York City women to enter the workforce and achieve success through a host of services and programming, including the selection of interview attire, one-to-one resume review, interview coaching and a broad workshop curriculum that promotes professional development, financial management and personal enrichment. More than 30,000 women have been served by the organization since its inception in 1999. For more information, please visit www.bottomlessclosetnyc.org , and be sure to follow Bottomless Closet on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , Pinterest , YouTube and LinkedIn .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005708/en/
Bottomless Closet
Alison Zaccone, 212-563-2499, ext. 21
Director of Communications
azaccone@bottomlessclosetnyc.org
or
Perry Ellis
Vincent Panzanella, 212-536-5758
Vice President of Marketing & Communications
vincent.panzanella@pery.com
Source: Bottomless Closet