Focus on Stewardship of School’s $20 Million Endowment
BETHESDA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Scott Puritz, managing director and co-founder of Rebalance IRA , has been named Chair of the North Carolina Outward Bound School’s Investment Committee. He assumes the role after serving on the North Carolina Outward Bound School ( NCOBS ) Board of Directors for the past 14 years.
“We know that we are in good hands with Scott at the helm of our Investment Committee,” said Whitney Montgomery, executive director of NCOBS. “Scott is a seasoned investing professional and is leading a team of highly experienced board members to oversee our school’s $20 million endowment.”
As an avid outdoorsman, Puritz appreciates the core values of the international Outward Bound movement and is committed to prudent stewardship of the school’s endowment.
“NCOBS recently celebrated 50 years of using the outdoors as a classroom to teach people of all ages and walks of life essential skills of leadership, character, and resiliency,” Puritz wrote in a blog celebrating NCOBS’s 50 th anniversary . “I am honored to work with dedicated board members on the Investment Committee to ensure that the school has the stability and financial resources necessary to transform lives for the next 50 years and beyond.”
About Rebalance IRA
Rebalance IRA is a pro-consumer investment firm that offers lower costs, endowment-quality globally-diversified investment portfolios, and systematic rebalancing. This investment approach is combined with a team of sophisticated and highly credentialed finance professionals who provide advice that is unbiased and focuses on the client’s long-term investing goals. Rebalance IRA is headquartered in Palo Alto, Calif. and Bethesda, Md., and currently manages $549 million in client assets. For more information, visit www.rebalance-ira.com .
About North Carolina Outward Bound School
For 50 years, North Carolina Outward Bound School has delivered challenging outdoor adventure programs based in experiential education to people of all ages and walks of life. These programs help individuals discover their strength of character, ability to lead, and desire to serve. NCOBS is a non-profit organization that is a part of the network of Outward Bound schools in the U.S. and all over the world. More information is available at www.ncobs.org .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005288/en/
Rebalance IRA
Robyn Miller-Tarnoff, 202-779-9844
RMiller-Tarnoff@Rebalance-IRA.com
Source: Rebalance IRA