NEW YORK,
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on STWD, PMT, UE, and LXP which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . For today, WallStEquities.com navigates the Diversified REITs industry, which invests in a wide variety of real estate assets, including leveraged portfolios of real estate financial products, such as mortgage backed securities, agency and non-agency mortgage investments, and other debt, along with physical properties. Under monitoring this morning are the following stocks: Starwood Property Trust Inc. (NYSE: STWD), PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (NYSE: PMT), Urban Edge Properties (NYSE: UE), and Lexington Realty Trust (NYSE: LXP). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below. http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
Starwood Property Trust
Greenwich, Connecticut headquartered Starwood Property Trust Inc.'s stock finished Tuesday's session 0.81% lower at $20.91. A total volume of 2.01 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 1.70 million shares. The Company's shares are trading below their 50-day moving average by 3.11%. Moreover, shares of the Company, which originates, acquires, finances, and manages commercial mortgage loans, other commercial real estate debt investments, commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other commercial real estate investments in the US and Europe, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 33.11.
On January 04 th , 2018, Starwood Property Trust (STWD) announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire an institutional-quality, multifamily affordable housing portfolio in Florida, comprising 28 properties and 6,185 units for approximately $600 million. The portfolio is 99% leased and predominately located in Orlando with smaller concentrations in the West Palm Beach, Tampa, and Miami MSAs. The Company is acquiring the portfolio with a combination of units, which is exchangeable into STWD common shares, cash, and debt financing in a newly formed subsidiary. Get the full research report on STWD for free by clicking below at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=STWD
PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust
Shares in Westlake Village, California-based PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust declined slightly by 0.69%, ending yesterday's session at $15.88 with a total trading volume of 324,958 shares. The stock is trading 0.10% above its 50-day moving average. Shares of the Company, which invests primarily in residential mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets in the US, have an RSI of 47.03.
On December 19 th , 2017, PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust's Board of Trustees declared a cash dividend of $0.47 per common share of beneficial interest for Q4 2017. This dividend will be paid on January 26 th , 2018, to common shareholders of record as of December 29 th , 2017. Find your free research report on PMT at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=PMT
Urban Edge Properties
On Tuesday, Urban Edge Properties' stock saw a drop of 2.72%, to close the day at $24.32. A total volume of 403,510 shares was traded. The stock is trading 2.46% below their 50-day moving average. Additionally, shares of the Company, which focuses on managing, acquiring, developing, and redeveloping retail real estate in urban communities, primarily in the New York metropolitan region, have an RSI of 38.18. Sign up today for the free research report on UE at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=UE
Lexington Realty Trust
Shares in New York City-based Lexington Realty Trust ended the day 2.91% lower at $9.34. A total volume of 1.44 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 860,610 shares. The stock is trading below its 200-day moving average by 7.27%. Furthermore, shares of the Company, which invests in real estate markets of the US, have an RSI of 23.79.
On December 11 th , 2017, research firm Evercore ISI downgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Outperform' to 'In-line'.
On January 09 th , 2018, Lexington Realty Trust announced updates on its Q4 2017 transaction activity. Highlights included the acquisition of four industrial properties for an aggregate cost of $140 million; the disposal of eight properties for an aggregate of $48 million; the formation of a joint venture, which acquired a 151-acre parcel of land to pursue industrial, build-to-suit opportunities; and the collection of $49 million in full satisfaction of a loan to a joint venture, among many other Q4 2017 transaction activities. Wall St. Equities' research coverage also includes the downloadable free report on LXP at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=LXP
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1)