New platform investment in leading manufacturer of premium interior door and hallway systems for self-storage, industrial and commercial facilities
SANTA MONICA, Calif. & TEMPLE, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (together with certain affiliates, “Clearlake”) today announced that it has agreed to acquire Janus International Group, LLC (“Janus” or the “Company”) in partnership with the Company’s management team. Janus is a leading global turnkey supplier of premium doors, hallway systems, locks, interior solutions and ancillary technologies. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005421/en/
Founded in 2002, Janus serves a broad and diversified set of blue chip national customers through a growing network of 13 locations spanning North America and Europe. The Company manufactures custom ordered interior solutions and provides value-added design, consulting and installation services in support of its products. These products and services represent the industry standard for quality and security, which has made Janus the supplier of choice for its core customers.
“We are excited to partner with Clearlake, which has a successful track record of sponsoring, supporting and growing companies in the industrial and building products sectors” said David Curtis, Founder and CEO of Janus. “Clearlake’s investment approach, operational expertise and financial resources will help accelerate our growth and allow us to continue providing the highest quality products and services to our customers.”
“Janus is a clear market leader to the self-storage segment, with a talented management team that has been driving relentless innovation within the sector,” said José E. Feliciano, Co-Founder and Managing Partner at Clearlake. “The combination of the Company’s differentiated product offerings, such as SecurGuard TM , and keen focus on the provision of value-added installation solutions has made Janus the leading supplier in the segment.”
“We are thrilled to support such a quality business and to sponsor the Company as it pursues an exciting new phase of growth,” said Colin Leonard, Partner at Clearlake. “This investment presents a compelling new platform that is poised to continue its recent momentum, both organically and through new acquisitions. What Janus is pursuing and developing is highly unique to the sector – the combination of Janus’ market leadership, a pipeline of aging self-storage facilities and the implementation of Janus’ internally developed new products and technologies represent compelling opportunities for the future.”
Moelis & Company and UBS Investment Bank served as financial advisors to Clearlake. Rothschild served as financial advisor to Janus.
ABOUT CLEARLAKE
Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. is a leading private investment firm founded in 2006. With a sector-focused approach, the firm seeks to partner with world-class management teams by providing patient, long-term capital to dynamic businesses that can benefit from Clearlake’s operational improvement approach, O.P.S.® The firm’s core target sectors are industrials and energy; software and technology-enabled services; and consumer. Clearlake has managed over $6.5 billion of institutional capital since inception and its senior investment principals have led or co-led over 100 investments. More information is available at www.clearlake.com .
ABOUT JANUS
Janus International Group, LLC is a global manufacturer and supplier of roll up and swing doors, hallway systems and re-locatable storage units for the self-storage industry. Headquartered in Temple, Georgia, Janus currently operates through 10 U.S. locations, two locations in Europe and a joint venture in Mexico. For more information, visit the Company’s website at www.janusintl.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005421/en/
Media:
OWEN BLICKSILVER PUBLIC RELATIONS, INC.
Kristin Celauro, 732-433-5200
kristin@blicksilverpr.com
or
Jennifer Hurson, 845-507-0571
jennifer@blicksilverpr.com
Source: Clearlake Capital Group, L.P.