MADISON, Wis., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Madison-based health tech company, Wellbe Inc., announced today the appointment of Michael R. Splinter to its board of directors. Splinter is chairman of the board at Nasdaq, Inc. and general partner at WISC Partners.
Splinter, an electrical engineer and innovator, has played a major role in driving advances in the high tech industry, with more than four decades of executive leadership experience at organizations including Applied Materials, Inc. and Intel. During his 12-year tenure with Applied Materials, Inc., Splinter served as chairman and CEO. Over his 20 years with Intel, he was executive vice president of sales and marketing, and executive vice president of the Technology and Manufacturing Group.
Throughout his career, Splinter has demonstrated an abiding commitment to shaping a better world. He has been recognized for this commitment as the 2013 recipient of the Robert Noyce Award, the semiconductor industry's highest honor. In 2015, he was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the University of Wisconsin.
Wellbe founder and CEO James Dias welcomes Splinter: "We're extremely pleased to have Mike joining our board of directors. He brings an extraordinary perspective on the transformational power of technology to shape the human experience."
Splinter arrives as healthcare consumers' increasing expectations for ease and convenience are converging with payers' increasing demands for lower costs and better outcomes. Dias explains, "Mike's focus on growth strategies and the development of leading technologies driving major industry transitions, particularly his leadership in the mobility revolution, will be key in guiding Wellbe's ongoing efforts to address these major healthcare industry challenges."
Splinter adds, "I am very excited to be joining the board of Wellbe to support the positive changes technology can bring to healthcare, and to dramatically improve patient outcomes while reducing costs. It is clear Wellbe's products will be clear enablers to those solutions. I look forward to working closely with James and the outstanding team at Wellbe."
About Wellbe
Wellbe enables high-performing health systems across the U.S. to advance the coordination and quality of care. Founded in 2009, Wellbe's 2nd generation Connected Care platform engages and empowers thousands of patients each day to participate as active partners with their providers across an episode of care. This coordinated participation in their treatments and procedures delivers higher satisfaction, fewer setbacks, better outcomes, and improved efficiencies. Automated workflows and integrated pathways drive smart systems of care to reduce administrative and operational costs and increase care team productivity.
In 2016, Wellbe debuted in Inc. Magazine's 35th annual Inc. 500, the most prestigious ranking of the nation's fastest-growing private companies, and was included in Modern Healthcare Magazine's list of the 100 Best Places to Work in Healthcare. TripleTree named Wellbe a semi-finalist in their iAwards for "insight, initiative, and innovation," and AARP recently named Wellbe a 50+ Innovation Leader. Learn more at www.wellbe.me or follow @WellbeMe on social media.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/former-applied-materials-executive-joins-wellbe-board-300587015.html
SOURCE Wellbe, Inc.