PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Foundation Radiology Group, one of the nation’s largest providers of radiology services that is creating innovative models for partnership with leading Academic Medical Centers, Integrated Delivery Networks and successful Community Hospitals, has appointed Kraig McEwen, a healthcare expert and successful entrepreneur to the company’s Board of Directors. McEwen currently serves as Executive Chairman of Trellis RX, a specialty pharmacy services company that partners with health systems to fund, build and operate world-class specialty pharmacies.
“Kraig’s knowledge and experience in leading and operating innovative healthcare organizations and in working with private equity sponsors are a perfect match for Foundation Radiology’s innovative culture,” says CEO Richard Vance, MD. “Having this resource locally in Pittsburgh is especially helpful to the company, and I have enjoyed getting to know Kraig and how he thinks about building and transforming businesses built on a six sigma heritage.”
Kraig McEwen was most recently Chief Executive Officer of Aesynt Inc., the market leader for integrated medication management solutions serving health systems across the globe. Kraig received the Pittsburgh Technology Council 2014 CEO of the Year award and was the recipient of the 2005 “40 Under 40” Top Executives in Pittsburgh award.
“I am excited to join Foundation’s board and to participate in the continued success of an innovative company,” says McEwen. “The recent partnership with the University of Virginia Medical Center and one of the University of Michigan’s most notable community hospitals speaks to the validation of Foundation’s intent to help transform radiology in the community hospital setting. Since the majority of healthcare is delivered in those local community settings, closing the gaps between local healthcare and the world’s best radiology services is an exciting role for Foundation to play.”
About Foundation Radiology Group
Foundation Radiology Group, based in Pittsburgh, PA, is a trusted partner for Academic Medical Centers, Integrated Delivery Networks, Community Hospitals and local radiologists. With over 30 referenceable clients across a 10-state region, our fully integrated radiology solutions platform combines onsite local radiologists and subspecialty services of a highly-trained physician team. Foundation’s more than 90 radiologists are all US-based providers. We offer expertise in every subspecialty. Our radiology team is available for consults day and night and deliver final reads 24/7/365. Foundation Radiology Group is the first multi-institutional radiology group accredited by the Joint Commission.
For more information, visit http://www.foundationradiologygroup.com/ Twitter@FoundationRad Facebook/FoundationRadiologyGroup – Phone: 412-230-8200 or 1-877-374-7231.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005660/en/
Foundation Radiology Group
Janet Abbott
Marketing Manager
412-230-8311
jabbott@foundationradiologygroup.com
Source: Foundation Radiology Group