Ramsey, NJ, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc. ( Konica Minolta ) proudly announced today that Roopa Parekh, Market Vice President, New England, has been promoted to the position of President, East Region, effective January 1, 2018. Parekh will report to Terry Dixon, President, Direct Operations.
Since joining the company in 2004 as a Sales Manager in Boston, Parekh has consistently helped move the organization forward with her focus on the development of her employees and the overall client experience. In her first year at Konica Minolta, her sales team catapulted to first place, and she was named Employee of the Year as she expanded the company’s presence in the East Region. Her interest in education and mentoring led her to develop a supplemental educational program for a local vocational school in Worcester, Massachusetts to offer Graphic Communications courses.
In 2014, as an Area Vice President, she developed five exceptional sales teams, one of which was awarded Konica Minolta’s “Simply Bold” award. Subsequently, that year, Parekh was promoted to her current position as Market Vice President, New England. Parekh has consistently achieved Konica Minolta’s President’s Club award for sales excellence for the past 12 years.
She is also a member of the Konica Minolta Diamond Circle, which is comprised of an elite group of sales personnel that have attained Konica Minolta President’s Club status for 10 years, in addition to being a recipient of Konica Minolta’s Gauntlet Award.
“I could not be more excited to promote Roopa to this new role where she will help us continue to evolve and transform our business,” said Terry Dixon, President, Direct Channel Operations, Konica Minolta. “Her exceptional performance during her tenure at Konica Minolta clearly illustrates how deserving she is of it and its respective responsibilities.”
About Konica Minolta
Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc. is reshaping and revolutionizing the Workplace of the Future™ ( www.reshapework.com ). With our comprehensive portfolio, we deliver solutions to leverage mobility, cloud services, and optimize business processes with workflow automation. Our All Covered IT Services division offers a range of IT strategy, support, and network security solutions across all verticals. Konica Minolta has been recognized as the #1 Brand for Customer Loyalty in the MFP Office Copier Market by Brand Keys for 10 consecutive years and is proud to be ranked on the Forbes 2017 America's Best Employers list. Konica Minolta, Inc. has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for five years in a row. We partner with our customers to give shape to ideas and work to bring value to our society. For more information, please visit: www.CountOnKonicaMinolta.com and follow Konica Minolta on Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter @KonicaMinoltaUS.
Konica Minolta and bizhub are registered trademarks of Konica Minolta, Inc.
Konica Minolta is a registered trademark of Konica Minolta, Inc.
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/52b57444-bbd5-4760-b84e-cb0c0fb3bb93
Kristina Marchitto Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc. 201-236-4399 kmarchitto@kmbs.konicaminolta.us
Source:Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc.