NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WeissLaw LLP is investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law by the Board of Directors of Validus Holdings Ltd ("VR" or the "Company") (NYSE: VR) in connection with the proposed acquisition of the Company by American International Group ("AIG") (NYSE: AIG). Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive $68.00 for each VR share they own.
WeissLaw is investigating whether VR's Board acted to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. Notably, according the acquisition announcement, VR "is an excellent strategic fit for AIG, bringing new businesses and capabilities to [AIG's] operation, expanding the bench of [its] management team and deepening [AIG's] underwriting expertise."
Moreover, the acquisition of VR is a strategic transaction which AIG anticipates will be immediately accretive to earnings per-share and return on equity, deliver profitable growth, and enhance its platform and long-term growth opportunities.
Given these facts, WeissLaw is investigating whether VR's Board acted in the best interests of VR's public shareholders to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. If you own VR shares and would like more information about your rights or our investigation, or if you have information to share with us, please contact Joshua Rubin by telephone at (888) 593-4771 or by email at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com .
WeissLaw LLP has litigated hundreds of stockholder class and derivative actions for violations of corporate and fiduciary duties. We have recovered over a billion dollars for defrauded clients and obtained important corporate governance relief in many of these cases. If you have information or would like legal advice concerning possible corporate wrongdoing (including insider trading, waste of corporate assets, accounting fraud, or materially misleading information), consumer fraud (including false advertising, defective products, or other deceptive business practices), or anti-trust violations, please email us at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com or fill out the form on our website, http://www.weisslawllp.com/validus-holdings-ltd/
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/weisslaw-llp-investigates-validus-holdings-ltd-acquisition-300587625.html
SOURCE WeissLaw LLP