HOUSTON, Jan. 12, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- KA Fund Advisors, LLC (“Kayne Anderson”), which serves as the advisor to Kayne Anderson MLP Investment Company (NYSE:KYN), Kayne Anderson Energy Total Return Fund, Inc. (NYSE:KYE), Kayne Anderson Midstream/Energy Fund, Inc. (NYSE:KMF) and Kayne Anderson Energy Development Company (NYSE:KED) today announced the following promotions.
James C. Baker has been promoted to a Portfolio Manager of KYN, KYE, KED and KMF. Mr. Baker, who joined the firm in 2004, has also served as President of the four funds since 2016. Kevin S. McCarthy and J.C. Frey continue in their role as Portfolio Managers of the four funds.
Ron M. Logan and Jody C. Meraz have each been promoted to Assistant Portfolio Manager of KYE and KMF. Mr. Logan, who joined the firm in 2006, and Mr. Meraz, who joined the firm in 2005, also serve as corporate officers of each fund.
In addition, Kayne Anderson today announced the promotion of Alan R. Boswell and Eric M. Javidi to Managing Director of Kayne Anderson. Mr. Boswell and Mr. Javidi joined Kayne Anderson in 2012 and 2015, respectively.
Kayne Anderson MLP Investment Company is a non-diversified, closed-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, whose common stock is traded on the NYSE. KYN’s investment objective is to obtain a high after-tax total return by investing at least 85% of its total assets in energy-related partnerships and their affiliates (collectively, “MLPs”), and in other companies that, as their principal business, operate assets used in the gathering, transporting, processing, storing, refining, distributing, mining or marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids (including propane), crude oil, refined petroleum products or coal.
Kayne Anderson Energy Total Return Fund, Inc. is a non-diversified, closed-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 whose common stock is traded on the NYSE. KYE’s investment objective is to obtain a high total return with an emphasis on current income by investing primarily in securities of companies engaged in the energy industry, principally including publicly-traded energy-related master limited partnerships and limited liability companies taxed as partnerships and their affiliates, and other companies that derive at least 50% of their revenues from operating assets used in, or providing energy-related services for, the exploration, development, production, gathering, transportation, processing, storing, refining, distribution, mining or marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids (including propane), crude oil, refined petroleum products, coal or electricity.
Kayne Anderson Midstream/Energy Fund, Inc. is a non-diversified, closed-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, whose common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. KMF’s investment objective is to provide a high level of total return with an emphasis on making quarterly cash distributions to its stockholders by investing at least 80% of its total assets in securities of companies in the Midstream/Energy Sector, consisting of: (a) Midstream Master Limited Partnerships (“MLPs”), (b) Midstream Companies, (c) Other MLPs and (d) Other Energy Companies. KMF anticipates that the majority of its investments will consist of investments in Midstream MLPs and Midstream Companies. See Glossary of Key Terms in KMF’s quarterly reports.
Kayne Anderson Energy Development Company is a non-diversified, closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. KED’s investment objective is to generate both current income and capital appreciation primarily through equity and debt investments. KED will seek to achieve this objective by investing at least 80% of its net assets together with the proceeds of any borrowings (its "total assets") in securities of companies that derive the majority of their revenue from activities in the energy industry, including: (a) Midstream Energy Companies, which are businesses that operate assets used to gather, transport, process, treat, terminal and store natural gas, natural gas liquids, propane, crude oil or refined petroleum products; (b) Upstream Energy Companies, which are businesses engaged in the exploration, extraction and production of natural resources, including natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil, from onshore and offshore geological reservoirs; and (c) Other Energy Companies, which are businesses engaged in owning, leasing, managing, producing, processing and sale of coal and coal reserves; the marine transportation of crude oil, refined petroleum products, liquefied natural gas, as well as other energy-related natural resources using tank vessels and bulk carriers; and refining, marketing and distributing refined energy products, such as motor gasoline and propane to retail customers and industrial end-users.
Contact:
KA Fund Advisors, LLC
877-657-3863
http://www.kaynefunds.com/
Source:Kayne Anderson Fund Advisors, LLC