0 COMMENTS The global stock rally pushed higher Friday, a day after the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above 25000 for the first time and as several other indexes notched multiyear highs.
The Stoxx Europe 600 rose 0.6% in morning trading, with the health-care sector among the strongest performers, up 0.8%. The index’s influential banking sector was also 0.5% higher.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 was last up 0.3% after closing at an all-time high on Thursday.
S&P 500 futures pointed to a 0.3% rise in U.S. stocks.
The global rally has been powered by an acceleration in economic growth and improving sentiment from consumers and businesses around the world. Investors will later Friday look out for the latest reading on the U.S. economy, with nonfarm payrolls numbers due to be released . A Wall Street Journal poll of economists forecast that 180,000 jobs were added to the U.S. economy in December.
“The market sees that central banks will be taking tightening policy slowly this year, that growth prospects are pretty strong, and that bottom-up earnings expectations from analysts are continuing to move higher. That’s a green light for equities investors,” said Michael Sneyd, global head of FX strategy & cross-asset strategist at BNP Paribas.
A trader wears a ‘Dow 25,000’ hat while working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. Photo: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg News Friday’s gains in Europe came after benchmarks across Japan, South Korea and China hung on to gains in afternoon trade.
Japan’s Nikkei index closed 0.9% higher at another fresh 26-year high. A fall in the yen helped boost the index, with many major Japanese companies reliant on exports.
Taiwan’s tech-heavy Taiex benchmark recovered from early-day weakness to finish the day 0.3% higher, hitting its highest closing level in 28 years.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 finished up 0.7% to reach a 10-year high, as bank shares and the strong price of oil outweighed the unexpected news of a November trade deficit.
Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was recently down 0.9% at $67.47 a barrel after closing at a fresh three-year high on Thursday.
Investors should rotate back into energy equities as 2018 progresses, according to Jonathan Garner, managing director and chief Asian and emerging-markets equity strategist at Morgan Stanley. “The main sectorial theme for the year is the outperformance of energy,” Mr. Garner said.
South Korea’s Kospi gained 1.3% after falling Thursday, with index heavyweight Samsung Electronics up 2%.
In China, the Shanghai Composite was up 0.2% and the Shenzhen Composite inched 0.04% higher. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index, however, was down 0.1% after hitting a 10-year high Thursday.
The dollar reversed some of its recent falls against both the euro and the Japanese yen. The euro fell 0.2% and the yen dropped 0.4%. The WSJ Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against a basket of 16 others, was up 0.2% but still down 1.7% on the month.
Investors were awaiting official U.S. jobs data, with nonfarm payrolls numbers due out later Friday.
Payroll company Automatic Data Processing released employment data Thursday revealing that the U.S. private sector added 250,000 jobs in December. Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal had expected the addition of 195,000 jobs.
U.S. 10-year government bond yields moved up to 2.457% from 2.452% late Thursday. Yields move inversely to prices.
Write to David Hodari at David.Hodari@dowjones.com and Lucy Craymer at Lucy.Craymer@wsj.com