Published: Jan 24, 2018 7:07 a.m. ET Share 
Daniel Och upends plan for James Levin to succeed him 
By Gregory Zuckerman Rob Copeland 
Once they were mentor and protégé. Now Daniel Och and James Levin are trapped in a battle for the future of one of New York’s biggest investment firms. 
In the late 1990s, Levin was working at a summer camp in Wisconsin, teaching Och’s son how to water ski. By last year, the younger man was in line to succeed Och as chief executive of Och-Ziff Capital Management LLC OZM, -4.06% , the largest publicly traded hedge fund in the U.S. with $33 billion in assets under management. To entice him to stick around, Och handed Levin, who is 34 years old and goes by Jimmy, nearly $300 million in cash and Och-Ziff stock. 
Over Christmas weekend, Och-Ziff rushed out a letter to investors revealing that the 57-year-old Och had changed his mind, overruling others in the process. “After extensive discussion with the board of directors, including the company’s independent directors, who support transitioning to Jimmy in the near future, it was the conclusion of Dan Och…that now is not the right time to transition to Jimmy.” 
Och himself has never publicly addressed why he soured on Levin and reasserted control at the big firm. Interviews with more than a dozen people close to the situation at Och-Ziff suggest that many inside the firm, including board members and Levin, were shocked by the shift. People familiar with Och’s thinking say he felt Levin pushed too far, too fast, asking for more money and control than he was due. 
“A level of distrust” had developed between the two executives, says a person close to the matter. 
The sudden reversal comes at a time of transition for the industry. Founders of many hedge funds and private-equity firms are nearing retirement age, after pocketing fortunes over their careers, and are focusing on succession. Hedge funds, which manage $3 trillion, are also under pressure to justify their existence, with clients griping about the high fees and relatively poor returns. 