NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Insight Venture Partners (Insight), a leading global venture capital and private equity firm, announced today the appointments of Anika Agarwal, Rachel Geller and Ross Devor to Managing Director. In addition, the firm has announced the appointments of Matt Gatto, Kevin Hurth and Philip Vorobeychik to Principal, and the hiring of Teddie Wardi as Principal.
"At Insight Venture Partners, we could not be more thrilled to elevate our team through these key promotions and additions," said Deven Parekh, Managing Director, Insight Venture Partners. "These individuals reflect the best Insight has to offer, which is an asset to the growth of our firm and our diverse portfolio. We are excited to kick off 2018 with a spotlight on not just these individuals, but their collective accomplishments on behalf of Insight."
Insight Venture Partners' team is more than 130 professionals strong, with over $18 billion raised, and has overseen investments in more than 300 companies across the globe.
"At Insight, we understand that growth equals opportunity, and take immense pride in driving that vision forward both internally and externally," said Ian Sandler, Chief Operating Officer, Insight Venture Partners. "Insight works to ensure greater opportunity for all, and we are excited for our new promotions and their commitment to building our future. Congratulations to all on these tremendous accomplishments."
About Anika Agarwal
Agarwal joined the Insight team in 2014. She focuses on leveraged buyouts and majority recapitalizations of application and infrastructure software companies. Agarwal was included in The Wall Street Journal's Private Equity Women to Watch 2017 list and profiled as a Private Equity Rising Star. Prior to Insight, she was a member of the investment team at Vista Equity Partners and the Merchant Banking Division at Goldman Sachs.
About Rachel Geller
Geller has been a member of Insight since 2008. As a Managing Director on the Insight Onsite team, she leads due diligence for Insight investments and engagements with portfolio company executives, focused on strategy, pricing and M&A. She has been a key team member for several portfolio company exits over the past three years. Geller previously worked as a strategy consultant and marketer at American Express. She mentors emerging leaders as part of the Parity Professional Program and is active in several Chicago non-profits.
About Ross Devor
Devor joined Insight in 2013 and has consummated seven platform investments across enterprise software while at the firm. He is a board member at several Insight portfolio companies and leads new investments in high growth application and infrastructure software companies. Prior to joining Insight, Devor was a member of the investment team at Thoma Bravo.
About Teddie Wardi
Wardi joined Insight in 2017 as Principal, and was previously a Partner at Atomico, one of the largest European venture funds based in London, and a VP at Dawn Capital, a SaaS focused early stage fund. Prior to venture investing, he served as co-founder and CTO of Nervogrid, a leading cloud service marketplace platform, which was acquired by ALSO.
About Matt Gatto
Gatto has grown his career at Insight Venture Partners since 2010 and was recently named as a "Rising Star" on GrowthCap's 40 Under 40 Growth Investors of 2017. Before joining Insight, Gatto's career included online advertising optimization at Verizon Information Services, debt restructuring and issuance at Deutsche Bank Asia, and electronic communications risk management at Merrill Lynch.
About Philip Vorobeychik
Another longtime member of the Insight team, Vorobeychik joined in 2010 and has been involved with 22 stand-alone investments and 23 add-on acquisitions, many of which he has led. These deals have spanned over 10 countries, and involved 12 board appointments for Vorobeychik. He focuses on infrastructure and application software companies. Before joining Insight, Vorobeychik founded several internet ventures, including a series of specialty eCommerce stores.
About Kevin Hurth
Hurth joined Insight in 2016 in a dedicated Capital Markets role. He manages Insight's relationships with financing partners and investment banks and coordinates debt and equity capital markets activities across the portfolio. Prior to joining Insight, Hurth was a member of BMO Harris Bank's Sponsor Finance group.
About Insight Venture Partners
Insight Venture Partners is a leading global venture capital and private equity firm investing in high-growth technology and software companies that are driving transformative change in their industries. Founded in 1995, Insight has raised more than $18 billion and invested in over 300 companies worldwide. Our mission is to find, fund and work successfully with visionary executives, providing them with practical, hands-on growth expertise to foster long-term success. Across our people and our portfolio, we encourage a culture around a core belief: growth equals opportunity. For more information on Insight and all its investments, visit www.insightpartners.com or follow us on Twitter @insightpartners.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/insight-venture-partners-announces-strategic-team-growth-promotes-three-to-managing-director-300582335.html
SOURCE Insight Venture Partners