POWAY, CA, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Solar Integrated Roofing Corporation (OTC PINK: SIRC) CEO Dave Massey announced the company has named David Savarese as company President.
“We could not be more excited”, said Massey. “David Savarese is one of the roofing and solar industries’ top leaders. He checks every box we were looking for. He has been involved in over $50 million in projects, has built highly successful sales teams and has experience running a publicly-traded company. He has a background in targeting and making acquisitions, which is a key component of our growth strategy moving forward. He will be a great addition to help lead the company.”
About Solar Integrated Roofing Corp.
Solar Integrated Roofing Corporation (SIRC) is an integrated solar and roofing installation company specializing in commercial and residential properties with a focus on acquisitions of like companies to build a footprint nationally. For more information, please visit: www.solarintegratedroofingcorp.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Any statements made in this press release which are not historical facts contain certain forward-looking statements; as such term is defined in the Private Security Litigation Reform Act of 1995, concerning potential developments affecting the business, prospects, financial condition and other aspects of the company to which this release pertains. The actual results of the specific items described in this release, and the company's operations generally, may differ materially from what is projected in such forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based upon the best judgments of management of the company as of the date of this release, significant deviations in magnitude, timing and other factors may result from business risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, the company's dependence on third parties, general market and economic conditions, technical factors, the availability of outside capital, receipt of revenues and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of the company. The company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. This press release shall not be deemed a general solicitation.
Contact: John Randolph 760-916-7444 sircpublic@gmail.com
Source:Solar Integrated Roofing Company Corp