New position created to accelerate the company’s expansion and growth
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Thomas, the leading provider of product sourcing, supplier selection and marketing solutions for industry, has announced that it has hired Amy Kim as the company’s first Chief Revenue Officer.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005258/en/
Amy Kim (Photo: Business Wire)
This new position is the latest in a series of key hires during a robust phase of audience expansion, new product introductions and increased innovation for Thomas. In her role as CRO Kim will lead the revenue growth strategy across Thomas’ multi-channeled sales operation, working closely with Thomas’ Vice Presidents of Customer Success, Certified Thomas Partner organization, Application Engineering Support team, Telesales, and the company’s recently hired National Accounts Director.
“We’re excited to welcome Amy to the Thomas team,” said Thomas CEO and President Tony Uphoff. “Amy shares the philosophy that our success is driven by the success of our customers and our Certified Thomas Partners. Her background and experience in technology, product and sales leadership are the perfect addition to our team as we accelerate our growth plans.”
Before joining Thomas, Kim founded and led Net to Net, a buying agency that helped manufacturers penetrate new markets. Prior to that, Kim was one of the first sales hires for Google’s Enterprise Business Division. She was most recently Google’s Head of Global Sales Strategic Partners, and during her eight years with the company she served in a variety of leadership roles, building expertise in technology and sales, and developing go-to-market strategies. Earlier in her career, Kim served in key leadership positions in sales, product management, product marketing and consulting with several leading companies including, Microsoft, Siebel Systems, PeopleSoft and Accenture.
“This is an ideal time to join Thomas,” said Kim. “The market opportunity and growth potential for the company and its customers are tremendous as industry 4.0 evolves. Thomas has the products, the technology, the people and the heritage to grow even stronger as the leader in the field, and I’m proud to be able to help drive that growth.”
The creation of the new CRO position comes amid a series of growth initiatives for Thomas, including the rollout of a new brand architecture and its new “For Industry” tagline, a restructuring of its Certified Thomas Partners sales organization to better serve customers, and next week’s launch of version 4.0 of the company’s product sourcing and supplier selection platform at Thomasnet.com ® .
Kim will be headquartered in the company’s New York office.
About Thomas
Thomas provides actionable information, data, analysis and tools that align with and support today’s industrial buying process. Its solutions include the Thomas Network at Thomasnet.com ® , industry’s largest and most active buyer/supplier network. Through Thomas Marketing, the company provides full-service industrial marketing programs, digital product data syndication solutions, and website development. Thomas Product Data Solutions helps manufacturers connect with design engineers through advanced CAD/BIM and data syndication services. Thomas Insights delivers original content to help marketers and supply chain professionals inform their decision-making, through leading titles including Inbound Logistics ® , Industrial Equipment News ® (IEN ® ), Thomas Industry Update, and the Thomas Index ™ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005258/en/
For Thomas:
Alex Kofsky
Alex@rosengrouppr.com
or
Rita Lieberman
RitaLieberman@thomasnet.com
Source: Thomas