BRANCHVILLE, N.J., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Selective Insurance Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:SIGI) today announced that George (Chip) Dufala, Jr. has been appointed Executive Vice President, Insurance Operations of Selective Insurance Company of America, Selective’s lead property and casualty insurance subsidiary. He will report to John Marchioni, Selective's President and Chief Operating Officer. In his new role, Mr. Dufala will lead Selective’s standard commercial and personal lines underwriting operations, including regional operations, distribution strategies, marketing, and customer experience.
“We are delighted to welcome Chip to Selective and our senior leadership team,” said Mr. Marchioni. “Chip is an accomplished executive whose leadership experience and deep industry knowledge will be valuable assets as we continue our disciplined, profitable growth. He will play a significant role in driving our state expansion efforts, enhancing relationships with our distribution partners, and delivering superior service to our customers,” Mr. Marchioni continued.
Mr. Dufala said, “This is an exciting time to join Selective as it continues to outperform the industry. I look forward to helping Selective capitalize on its significant market opportunities and advancing its corporate strategies.”
Mr. Dufala brings nearly 25 years of insurance industry experience to Selective. Most recently, he served as President, Property & Casualty Division at Kemper Corporation. Previously, he spent more than two decades at Erie Insurance Group, where he held roles of increasing seniority, ultimately as Executive Vice President. Mr. Dufala earned a bachelor’s degree in Political Science and Economics from Thiel College in Pennsylvania, and holds the following credentials: Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU), Associate in Customer Service (ACS), Associate in Claims (AIC), Associate in Insurance Services (AIS), Associate in Personal Insurance (API), and Certified Professional Insurance Agent (CPIA). Chip is a member of the Board of Directors for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and The Institutes.
About Selective
Selective Insurance Group, Inc. is a holding company for ten property and casualty insurance companies rated “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best. Through independent agents, the insurance companies offer standard and specialty insurance for commercial and personal risks, and flood insurance underwritten by the National Flood Insurance Program. Selective maintains a website at www.Selective.com .
Media Contact: Jamie Beal 973-948-1234 Jamie.Beal@Selective.com Investor Relations Contact Rohan Pai 973-948-1364 Rohan.Pai@Selective.com
Source: Selective Insurance Group, Inc.