BEIJING, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- FleishmanHillard today announced that Li Hong, former chairman and president of China for FleishmanHillard, senior consultant with the firm, is moving on after 16 years leading its mainland operations.
FleishmanHillard also announced two key appointments that will position the agency for further success in Greater China: Lichi Hsueh, currently head of the firm's Shanghai operations, has been promoted to a new role of chief operating officer for FleishmanHillard in China. Yisi Liu, currently deputy GM in Shanghai, will become general manager of the Shanghai office.
Under Li Hong's leadership, FleishmanHillard's China business has flourished, boasting a stellar portfolio of Chinese and global clients, a deep talent bench and strong capabilities to meet the fast-evolving needs of China's dynamic business and communications environment today.
"Li Hong's contribution to the success of FleishmanHillard's mainland operations was significant and pioneering in so many ways," said Lynne Anne Davis, FleishmanHillard senior partner, Asia Pacific president. "His core belief to provide clients with progressive and innovative integrated services drove his approach to managing clients as well as developing teams. His ability to anticipate trends and his connections at the highest levels allowed FleishmanHillard to undertake some of the most innovative and memorable campaigns in China's PR history.
"His lasting achievements are many: for example, he actively supported the firm's Global China Practice when it was launched in 2012, helping to grow outbound business from China to the worldwide network to support the cross-border expansion of Chinese industry leaders. Today, many of our Chinese clients are global leaders and feature prominently on the Fortune 500, and we are proud to serve them."
Li Hong's tenure has been recognized with many awards including the Greater China Agency of the Year award from The Holmes Report in 2013.
"Over the past year, since Rachel Catanach's appointment to president of Greater China, Li Hong has played an important advisory role, counselling clients at the senior-most level, mentoring top talent, and championing network collaboration and partnership for further expansion of the business. We wish him and his family all the best for this next chapter. He leaves with the deepest gratitude for the past 16 years of remarkable leadership, inspiration and achievement – and our infinite appreciation for taking that first step to build something bigger than himself that will carry on in his spirit," commented Davis.
Hsueh, FleishmanHillard's managing director, client service in China and head of the Shanghai operations, has been promoted to a new role of chief operating officer for FleishmanHillard in China.
A well-rounded counselor, Hsueh brings more than 19 years of leadership, client and business expansion experience in Greater China's PR industry. Through her work with leading brands in the technology and financial services sectors, she demonstrates deep expertise in managing sensitive issues, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate affairs.
"As head of our Shanghai operations, Lichi has demonstrated a keen business acumen and strong ability to drive business growth through a laser focus on client service quality and talent development. This new role recognizes the need for innovative management of resources in a complex and dynamic environment. Lichi is a natural bridge-builder and her infectious enthusiasm and energy, combined with a strong business drive, will position us well to capture growth in this next phase of our development in China," said Catanach.
Liu, who is currently the Shanghai office's deputy general manager and head of FleishmanHillard's corporate and public affairs team in Shanghai, will be promoted to general manager of the Shanghai office.
Liu joined FleishmanHillard Shanghai in 2012 and has significant expertise in stakeholder identification and engagement, government policy analysis, corporate reputation management, and issues and crisis management. In addition to his extensive corporate affairs experience working with brands in the tourism, healthcare, agriculture, B2B and finance sectors, Liu spent five years at government agency China National Tourism Administration.
"With his expansive understanding of China's corporate sector, Yisi is a highly sought-after counselor on the best approach for navigating the complexities and changing dynamics of China's business landscape. The Shanghai office won great new clients in the luxury, B2B and lifestyle sectors in 2017, in no small part due to Yisi's strategic abilities and insights, and focus on creating meaningful communications outcomes for clients.
"Lichi and Yisi, together with other members of our senior team in Greater China, represent the next generation of leaders in the public relations industry. They are communication entrepreneurs and their energy and insights, plus disciplined approach, will help Chinese companies and multi-nationals operating in China, leverage and export new ways of communicating that are 'Made in China, Designed for the World'," said Catanach.
Other leaders in FleishmanHillard's Greater China leadership team include Jerry Zou, general manager Beijing; Judy Wei, general manager consumer services; Helena He, general manager digital and social engagement; Geoff Bilbrough, general manager Hong Kong; and Patrick Yu, deputy general manager Hong Kong.
"I am delighted to have such a strong team. We're excited by the opportunities in the marketplace, and look forward to punching above our weight and showing what we're made of," added Catanach.
About FleishmanHillard
FleishmanHillard specializes in public relations, reputation management, public affairs, brand marketing, digital strategy, social engagement and content strategy. FleishmanHillard was named Agency of the Year at the 2017 North American Excellence Awards; 2017 ICCO Network of the Year for the Americas and EMEA; PRWeek's Best Places to Work 2017; PR News' Best Places to Work in PR 2016-2017; Human Rights Campaign Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality for 2018; PR Awards Asia 2017 Greater China Agency of the Year; and NAFE's "Top 50 Companies for Executive Women" for 2010-2017. The firm's award-winning work is widely heralded, including at the Cannes International Festival of Creativity. FleishmanHillard is part of Omnicom Public Relations Group, and has more than 80 offices in 30 countries, plus affiliates in 43 countries.
About Omnicom Public Relations Group
Omnicom Public Relations Group is a global collective of three of the top global public relations agencies worldwide and specialist agencies in areas including public affairs, marketing to women, fashion, global health strategy and corporate social responsibility. It encompasses more than 6,000 public relations professionals in more than 330 offices worldwide who provide their expertise to companies, government agencies, NGOs and nonprofits across a wide range of industries. Omnicom Public Relations Gr