Las Vegas, Nevada, Jan. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- MGP Wealth Management and Sagacious Asset Management announce that they have retained Klink & Klink (“K & K” or the “Firm”), which is skilled and experienced in corporate restructuring and toxic debt remediation, to advise them and their clients on the Woodbridge Capital LLC Chapter 11.
K & K, with offices in New York, California and Nevada and affiliates in Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Utah, Illinois, and Massachusetts, is the successor firm of Ellsworth Young LLP and has assumed its business. K & K’s partners, Christopher Klink and Charles Klink, are experienced lawyers in litigation, finance, toxic debt law, and bankruptcy, with significant experience representing publicly traded over the counter companies.
The firm is consulting with Global Capital Ventures ( www.gcvh.co ), which is an adviser to K & K in the Woodbridge Capital Chapter 11. K & K has been retained by investors to supervise and protect the interests of twenty (20) investors in Woodbridge Capital LLC and its subsidiaries that have filed bankruptcy under Chapter 11 in U.S. District Court in Delaware.
The Firm and Global Capital also announces the successful conclusion of the Textmunication Holdings Inc. (TXHD) case in the Massachusetts courts with Auctus Fund LLC in conjunction with Aaron Hutchins Firm thus eliminating all toxic debt for TXHD.
About Klink & Klink
Klink & Klink is a full-service law firm, with offices in New York, California and Nevada and affiliates in Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Utah, Illinois, and Massachusetts. The firm specializes in advising micro and small cap public companies in the fields of general corporate law, tax law, as well as litigation, including but not limited to, “debt restructuring” & “toxic debt” matters. For further information visit the website at www.cklinklaw.com or call Chris Klink at 702-988-2300.
About Global Capital
Global Capital Ventures Holdings Is a group of highly experienced investment professionals dedicated on a sector-by-sector basis to provide expertise and added value to start-ups and mid cap companies, including pre-IPO companies that cannot afford legal, marketing, sales, and investment banking services. For further information visit the website at www.gcvh.co or call Michael Pratter @310-806-1403.
About Textmunication Holdings, Inc.
Textmunication Holdings Inc. (TXHD) is an online mobile marketing platform service provider that helps health clubs and martial arts studios communicate with their members by allowing them to build loyalty, engage member retention, and create new business through a non-intrusive, value added medium. Textmunication connects members to the content they desire, through any mobile device, for health clubs and studio events, as well as promotions. Clients can send the most up-to-date offers, discounts, member alerts, events, PT schedules, or any other personalized campaign: www.textmunication.com Contact: David Thielen at 800-677-7003.
Michael Pratter 3108061403 mspratter@gmail.com
Source: Klink & Klink