BROOKFIELD, Wis., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- OnCourse Learning today announced the acquisition of Wound Care Education Institute , an internationally recognized wound care education leader for healthcare professionals.
"Wound care impacts patients along nearly the entire care continuum," said Patrick Sheahan, President and CEO of OnCourse Learning. "By educating clinicians throughout the continuum, patient care can be more positively influenced thanks to Wound Care Education Institute's library of courses."
WCEI was founded in 2002 in Lake Geneva, Wis., by Nancy Morgan, RN, BSN, MBA, WOC, DWC, OMS, and Donna Sardina, RN, MHA, WCC, DWC, OMS. While working as registered nurses, they noticed a trend of nurses and healthcare professionals who had an interest in wound care but limited or non-existent access to specialized wound education. Morgan and Sardina decided to effect change by forming WCEI.
WCEI conducts on-site and online courses, along with live and on-demand webinars. The institute's annual Wild On Wounds conference draws wound care clinicians from around the country.
Impact of wound care education
"Skin is the largest organ in the body, and more than 6.5 million people in the U.S. suffer from chronic wounds," Morgan said. "We have the ability to empower clinicians to make a difference in their patients' lives. Becoming part of OnCourse Learning, which educates clinicians in 20 different healthcare professions , allows us to meet the educational needs of many more professionals."
According to a 2017 study published in the Value in Health journal, annual Medicare spending for all wound types is estimated between $28 billion and $32 billion. In 2015, the federal government began penalizing hospitals and healthcare facilities based on measures of adverse events, including wounds.
"Proper wound care is a major focus for our clients," said Ken Ramirez, OnCourse Learning's Executive Vice President, Healthcare. "They recognize its importance and the impact it can have on the patient experience and the overall quality of care. Incorporating the WCEI curriculum into the OnCourse Learning library of offerings will accelerate the number of wound care certified clinicians and their impact on patient care."
Wound care training audience
WCEI, which has 20 employees, has educated more than 25,000 professionals in skin and wound management, diabetic wounds and ostomy management since it was founded, including:
Registered nurses Licensed practical nurses Licensed vocational nurses Physicians Physical therapists Occupational therapists Nurse practitioners Advanced practice nurses Dieticians
For media inquiries, contact:
Barry Bottino, Communications Director
847-908-8007
188861@email4pr.com
About OnCourse Learning
OnCourse Learning delivers licensure, regulatory and compliance education solutions throughout the nation's leading industries including financial services, healthcare and real estate. Through trusted industry expertise, compliance management and technology solutions, OnCourse Learning focuses on advancing the e-learning environment for individuals and businesses to help to build new careers, empower employees through knowledge and identify efficiencies in corporate training management. OnCourse Learning offers a full suite of educational products including state and federally approved prelicensing and continuing education programs, accredited course content, exam prep tools, publications, e-books, events and a sophisticated and customizable learning management system and course-authoring tool. To learn more, visit OnCourseLearning.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oncourse-learning-acquires-leading-wound-care-training-company-300583629.html
SOURCE OnCourse Learning