NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Denihan Hospitality (“Denihan” or the “Company”), a full-service hospitality company focusing on developing, owning, managing and franchising boutique luxury and lifestyle hotels, today announced that President and Chief Operating Officer, Vera Manoukian, has been appointed to the Board of the American Hotel & Lodging Association (“AHLA”).
“I’m honored to join the Board of the AHLA and work in unison with a group of talented lodging professionals to drive the industry forward,” said Ms. Manoukian. “I look forward to serving as a leading voice for all of our members and advancing polices and initiatives that will benefit the broader sector.”
AHLA is the sole national association representing all segments of U.S. lodging industry including brands, owners and REITs, management companies, independents and state associations. As a board member, Ms. Manoukian will help shape AHLA’s agenda and will be part of important discussions concerning a broad range of industry and association-related issues.
“Vera’s track record and leadership capabilities make her ideally suited for this important role,” said Patrick Denihan, co-CEO of Denihan. “Vera has made a significant positive impact at Denihan and we have no doubt her experience, informed perspectives and passion for the industry will greatly benefit AHLA.”
Ms. Manoukian has served as President and COO since joining Denihan in April of 2017 from Starwood Hotels and Resorts. As a seasoned professional with more than 30 years of experience in the hospitality industry, Ms. Manoukian is responsible for helping lead Denihan’s strategic growth initiatives.
The new board of directors was appointed by the AHLA Nominating Committee in accordance with the AHLA Bylaws.
About Denihan Hospitality
Denihan is a privately-held, full service hotel management and development company. The Company owns and/or operates boutique hotels in major urban markets throughout the U.S. For over 50 years, Denihan has been creating value by acquiring, repositioning and managing independent assets. The Denihan portfolio includes properties operating under The James and Affinia Hotel Collection brands, as well as Manhattan independent boutique hotels, The Benjamin, and The Surrey, voted #1 hotel in New York City in Travel + Leisure's 'World's Best Awards' in 2016 and 2017. The portfolio also includes an impressive list of chef-driven restaurants and bars. Denihan’s uniquely guest-centric approach, refined through three generations of Denihan leadership, has made it an industry leader in hospitality, property and restaurant development, as well as hotel operations, management and marketing. More details can be found at www.denihan.com .
About American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA)
Serving the hospitality industry for more than a century, the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA) is the sole national association representing all segments of the 2 million-employee U.S. lodging industry, including hotel owners, REITs, chains, franchisees, management companies, independent properties, bed and breakfasts, state hotel associations, and industry suppliers. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., AH&LA provides focused advocacy, communications support, and educational resources for an industry of more than 53,000 properties generating $176 billion in annual sales from 5 million guestrooms.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005923/en/
Media
For Denihan
Denihan@icrinc.com
Jason Chudoba | 646-277-1249
Kelly Ferraro | 646-277-1291
Matthew Chudoba | 203-682-8217
Source: Denihan Hospitality