FRISCO, Texas, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Integer Holdings Corporation (NYSE:ITGR), a leading medical device outsource (MDO) manufacturer, today announced that Kirk Thor joined the Company on Jan. 2, 2018, as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, reporting to President and CEO Joe Dziedzic. He will oversee the Company’s Human Resources and Communications activities, and serve on the Executive Leadership Team.
“We are delighted to welcome Kirk to the Integer team,” Dziedzic said. “His demonstrated strategic focus, practical approach and unbridled passion for developing individuals, leaders and teams will enable us to continue building a high-performance culture that accelerates Integer's growth while honoring our values.”
Thor joins Integer from Flowserve Corporation where he served as Vice President of Global Talent Management and Organizational Effectiveness. He has over 25 years of human resources experience across numerous industries, including leadership roles at JC Penney, Centex Corporation, Disney World, National Data Corporation and the Army Research Institute.
Thor graduated from Weber State University in Ogden, Utah, with a Bachelor of Science in Psychology, Sociology, and earned master’s and doctorate degrees in Industrial/Organizational Psychology from George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.
Kjirsten Mickesh, who served as Interim CHRO during the transition, will continue in her role as Vice President of Talent and Organization Effectiveness.
About Integer™
Integer Holdings Corporation (NYSE:ITGR) is one of the largest medical device outsource (MDO) manufacturers in the world serving the cardiac, neuromodulation, orthopedics, vascular, advanced surgical and portable medical markets. The company provides innovative, high-quality technologies and manufacturing to Medical Device OEM’s to enhance the lives of patients worldwide. In addition, it develops batteries for high-end niche applications in energy, military, and environmental markets. The company's brands include Greatbatch™ Medical, Lake Region Medical and Electrochem. Additional information is available at www.integer.net .
Integer Contacts
Investor Relations
Amy Wakeham
IR@integer.net
214.618.4978
Media Relations
Kelly Butler
kelly.butler@integer.net
214.618.4216
Source:Integer Holdings Corporation