DALLAS, Jan. 25, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Texas Capital Bancshares, Inc. (Nasdaq:TCBI), the parent company of Texas Capital Bank, has elected David S. Huntley, Senior Executive Vice President & Chief Compliance Officer of AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T), to its board of directors.
Serving in his current position with AT&T since December 2014, Mr. Huntley is responsible for developing policies to safeguard the privacy of customer and employee information, and verifying compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of every country and jurisdiction in which AT&T operates, as well as AT&T internal compliance requirements.
“David is a tremendous leader with outstanding business and legal acumen, and we are excited to welcome him to the Texas Capital Bancshares board of directors,” said Larry Helm, chairman of the board. “We are confident that his experience and insight will prove invaluable to the board and the company.”
Mr. Huntley’s relationship with AT&T dates back to 1994. Over the years, he’s held positions of increasing responsibility in external affairs, wireless operations, mergers and acquisitions, data operations and other areas of AT&T.
His appointments at AT&T have included Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel for AT&T Services in 2012, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive in 2010, Senior Vice President of AT&T’s Mobility Customer Service Centers in 2009, Senior Vice President of eCommerce and Sales Centers in 2008, and Senior Vice President of Customer Information Services in 2005.
ABOUT TEXAS CAPITAL BANCSHARES, INC.
Texas Capital Bancshares, Inc. (NASDAQ:TCBI), a member of the Russell 2000® Index and the S&P MidCap 400®, is the parent company of Texas Capital Bank, a commercial bank that delivers highly personalized financial services to businesses and entrepreneurs. Headquartered in Dallas, the bank has full-service locations in Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston and San Antonio. For more information, please visit www.texascapitalbank.com
INVESTOR CONTACT
Heather Worley, 214.932.6646
heather.worley@texascapitalbank.com
Source:Texas Capital Bancshares, Inc.