Alexandra Brand appointed to the newly created role of Chief Sustainability Officer CSO brings further focus to Syngenta’s contribution to more sustainable agricultural production Helping achieve even better environmental outcomes in agriculture is central to Syngenta operating as a responsible company
BASEL, Switzerland--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Syngenta has today publicly announced the appointment of Alexandra Brand, previously Regional Director for Europe, Africa and Middle East, to the new position of Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). As CSO, Brand will report directly to CEO Erik Fyrwald.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005183/en/
Alexandra Brand, Syngenta Chief Sustainability Officer (Photo: Business Wire)
Alexandra Brand will lead the newly created Business Sustainability Group to evolve existing sustainability initiatives including The Good Growth Plan and to drive forward the company’s sustainability agenda. The group aligns the company’s Regulatory Affairs, Sustainability and Stewardship, External Affairs and Communications activities.
In making the announcement, Syngenta CEO Erik Fyrwald said: “We are already playing an important role in helping to feed the world and we want to do more as we go forward. To do this we need to have sensible discussions with governments, NGOs, academics and the food chain on the regulatory, policy and societal challenges and opportunities our industry faces. We have made real progress and we want to build on this with new and different conversations about what more sustainable agriculture will mean in the future.
“We want to help further shape agriculture and its place in society - the position of CSO will be central in leading this. Alexandra has a real passion for helping farmers to become more productive while managing the impacts of climate change and having to produce more with less,” said Mr. Fyrwald.
Alexandra Brand said: “The technology we bring to farmers can help them safely feed the world and take care of our planet – this includes reducing greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and soil conservation. We also play a key role in helping to preserve biodiversity and precision technology will be important in all of these areas.
“I’m really excited by the opportunity to drive further change in our company and in our industry. We are looking to create new partnerships and work together with groups we might not have worked with in the past. We will build on the significant achievements of The Good Growth Plan, with even greater transparency and commitment from Syngenta to further improve the sustainability of global agriculture.”
About Syngenta
Syngenta is a leading agriculture company helping to improve global food security by enabling millions of farmers to make better use of available resources. Through world class science and innovative crop solutions, our 28,000 people in over 90 countries are working to transform how crops are grown. We are committed to rescuing land from degradation, enhancing biodiversity and revitalizing rural communities.
To learn more visit www.syngenta.com and www.goodgrowthplan.com . Follow us on Twitter® at www.twitter.com/Syngenta .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005183/en/
Syngenta International AG
Media Office
CH-4002 Basel
Switzerland
Tel: +41 61 323 2323
Fax: +41 61 323 2424
www.syngenta.com
or
Media:
Switzerland
Andrew McConville, +41 61 323 0618
or
USA
Paul Minehart, +1 202-737-8913
media.relations@syngenta.com
or
Analysts/Investors:
Andrew McConville
+41 61 323 0618 (Switzerland)
+1 202-737-6521 (USA)
Source: Syngenta International AG