WOODBRIDGE, Va., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Engineering Services Network, Inc.(ESN) , a leading provider of professional engineering and IT services for military and government customers, named Douglas "Doug" R. Lopez as its new President.
As President, Lopez, 46, will be responsible for implementing IT, program management, cyber engineering and logistic solutions and services that deliver the right capabilities at the right cost to ESN's customers in the Defense Department and federal government marketplace.
"Doug brings significant leadership, a rich military background, and a wealth of experience in engineering, IT and cyber engineering to ESN," said Chairman and CEO Raymond F. Lopez, Jr., the founder of ESN, a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business based in Woodbridge, Va. "He will continue to lead the future of ESN's growth strategy and as a service-disabled veteran, he will ensure ESN's continued success as a Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business."
Doug Lopez's ascent began in 1998 when he joined ESN as a system analyst. Lopez advanced to Program Manager, then Director of Operations before becoming COO, and now President.
"I'm honored to take the day-to-day helm at ESN and focus on assisting our military and government customers," Lopez said. "As a small business leader in the Washington, DC, area since 1995, ESN and our advanced teams are always ready to provide the most cost-effective, leading-edge IT solutions to our growing list of customers. Technology and cyber capabilities are driving the changes today at the DoD, and we want to continue as a small business leader in that arena."
Engineering Services Network, Inc.
ESN is a trusted leader in engineering and technology solutions. Founded in 1995, ESN is a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business with military and government customers, delivering professional management & systems engineering services; cyber security & information/mission assurance services ; network design, integration, & data center consolidation services ; enterprise IT ITIL & ITSM services ; systems development & life-cycle services ; health IT services ; and acquisition services . ESN customer experience includes U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, Military Sealift Command, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, HHS and agencies.
Based in Woodbridge, VA, ESN has offices in U.S./worldwide. ESN is ISO 9001:2008 certified and has achieved Software Engineering Institute's Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Maturity Level 3 for Services v 1.3. ESN: esncc.com .
Company:
Al Desmarais, Business Development
678-967-1424; ADesmarais@esncc.com
Media:
Carol Castaneda for ESN 703-863-9960
Castaneda@cgcprmedia.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/engineering-services-network-esn-promotes-douglas-r-lopez-to-president-300590005.html
SOURCE Engineering Services Network, Inc. (ESN)