SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Acorn Growth Companies, a private equity firm investing exclusively in aerospace and defense, announced Peter Greenthal as the new CEO and president of its portfolio business, Raisbeck Engineering Inc. headquartered in Seattle, Washington.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006012/en/
Acorn Growth Companies, a private equity firm investing exclusively in aerospace and defense, announced Peter Greenthal as the new CEO and president of its portfolio business, Raisbeck Engineering Inc. headquartered in Seattle, Washington. (Photo: Business Wire)
“As we move into the next phase of growth for Raisbeck Engineering, Peter brings not only a new way of thinking, but proven performance in the aerospace, defense and space market segments,” said Rick Nagel, managing partner of Acorn Growth Companies. “I am confident his passion for the business and experience will have an immediate and positive impact on the growth and profitability of the company.”
Founded in 1982, Raisbeck Engineering develops, markets and manufactures worldwide-certified performance improvement systems for some of the most prolific commercial and general aviation aircraft models in the market today.
“I am proud to lead one of the most prominent brands and dedicated teams in the aviation community,” Greenthal said. “I look forward to building on the legacy of delivering innovative products and engineering capabilities that enrich our customers’ flight experience as we look to extend our reach into new markets and geographies.”
About Raisbeck Engineering Inc.
Raisbeck Engineering Inc., an Acorn Growth Company, is a leading provider of aircraft modifications for business and commercial aircraft. Dedicated to improving performance and efficiency for aircraft owners, Raisbeck Engineering’s aerodynamically designed enhancements deliver better performance results and improve passenger comfort. www.Raisbeck.com
About Acorn Growth Companies
Acorn Growth Companies is a middle market private equity firm focused exclusively on Aerospace & Defense. Acorn invests solely in operating companies that strive to enhance global mobility and protect national interests. Acorn has a formidable reputation in the industry and is recognized for its deep understanding of the Aerospace & Defense markets, with proprietary access to the best companies within these sectors. With operational expertise and its ability to lead and manage investments through variable economic and industry cycles, Acorn works in tandem with management to build its portfolio companies into significant market leaders. www.AcornGrowthCompanies.com
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130006012/en/
Acorn
Media Contact:
Kath Searle, 682-888-4466
or
Investor Contact:
Brandon Bradford, 917-224-8399
Source: Acorn Growth Companies