Hire comes amid momentum as leading brands increasingly turn to Decibel Insight’s digital experience analytics to understand, optimize and measure their customer experiences
LONDON & BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Decibel Insight , a leader in digital experience analytics for enterprise businesses, today announced that it has appointed Even Walser as Chief Revenue Officer. Walser joins the company as brands are increasingly investing in solutions to better understand and improve digital experience, particularly in the U.S. market where the company expects to grow its workforce by 300 percent in 2018 to meet this growing demand.
Walser’s hire caps off a notable year of growth for Decibel Insight, which has included opening a new office in San Francisco, raising a $9 million Series A investment round in May and several growth milestones in September—including doubling its customer base. In November, the company also won “Technology Business of the Year” for 2017 in the highly-regarded UK Startups Awards. To support this growth, Decibel made several key executive appointments prior to Walser, including Brian Bullock, VP of U.S. Sales; Adnan Erriade, VP EMEA Sales; David Ives, VP of Engineering; and Lindsay O'Gorman, VP of Marketing.
Walser joins Decibel Insight after four successful years with Brandwatch, most recently as Executive Vice President of EMEA Revenue. In his time at Brandwatch, Walser helped to build the company’s San Francisco and Paris offices as well as the North American Enterprise sales team. Under his leadership, Brandwatch became the premier global provider of social intelligence solutions to enterprise companies. Prior to his work with Brandwatch, Walser led commercial for Topsy, a social listening technology pioneer acquired by Apple in 2014 and helped to found and scale U.S. health tech pioneer Practice Fusion, the largest electronic medical record provider in the U.S., raising over $155 million in top tier venture funds.
“I’ve long admired Decibel Insight’s vision to quantify the digital experience. The company is taking a strategic approach to solving big and complex business problems that truly sets it apart from all others in the space,” Walser said. “I’m looking forward to bringing my experience building high-growth, customer-centric, global technology businesses to such an exciting and fast-growing organization.”
“Even’s appointment highlights the continued growth Decibel Insight has been experiencing and marks our prioritization of building a team of A-plus players,” said CEO and founder Ben Harris. “His 20 years of experience will help us to achieve our goal of partnering with brands on the brink of digital transformation.”
 , visit Decibel Insight’s website . Those interested in joining the fast-growing company can learn more about positions in sales, marketing and support on the careers page .
About Decibel Insight
Decibel Insight reveals exactly how users behave on websites and apps, making it easy for enterprise businesses to quantify and improve the customer experience at every digital touchpoint.
Powered by machine learning, our award-winning technology processes hundreds of revolutionary behavioral metrics – from mouse movements and device rotations, to pop-ups and errors – to automatically surface poor or unusual experiences on your website or app. Through easy-to-action insights, video replays and data visualizations, Decibel’s analytics software provides an accurate picture of every user’s on-page experience and alerts you to the cause and scale of any problems.
The world’s largest brands – including Lego, General Motors, British Airways, and AllState Insurance – use Decibel Insight to pinpoint opportunities to improve the customer experience and collaborate across their organizations to put the customer first.
Find out more at www.decibelinsight.com .
Follow @decibelinsight
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005142/en/
Version 2.0 Communications
Alexandra Saville, 646-760-2896
decibelinsight@v2comms.com
Source: Decibel Insight