NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Accenture (NYSE:ACN) has been named a leader – receiving the highest score in the Strategy category – in the latest Forrester Research report on applications management and digital operations services (AMDOS). The report, “The Forrester Wave™: Applications Management and Digital Operations Services, Q4 2017,” evaluated Accenture and 11 other service providers on 26 criteria, including Current Offering, Strategy, and Market Presence.
The report states: “In pursuing innovation for clients, Accenture combines partnerships with leading and emerging ecosystem players, proprietary accelerators, industry-specific assets, and methodologies.” The Forrester report also cites Accenture as “an excellent choice for infrastructure and operations pros with broad AMDOS needs who are looking for a balance of technical and business strengths.”
The report notes that the Strategy category, in which Accenture received the highest score, assessed providers’ value propositions, industry momentum, visions for the future of AMDOS, execution road maps, innovation road maps, commercial pricing models, strategies for digital transformation, and strategies for personnel.
Accenture also received the second highest score in the Current Offering category, with the highest score in the commercial, off-the-shelf capabilities criterion. The report states that the company has “made significant efforts toward transforming its own workforce for new technology operating models while pursuing automation through Accenture myWizard ® and its OPERA (optimize, eradicate, and automate) initiative.”
“The digital era demands a new approach to application management. Companies need to continuously innovate, evolve and integrate their applications to achieve better business outcomes,” said Bhaskar Ghosh, group chief executive, Accenture Technology Services. “Accenture’s Liquid Application Management approach helps enable our clients to automate their business and consolidate and modernize IT to achieve unparalleled speed, agility, productivity and efficiency gains.”
“We believe this report recognizes how Accenture’s intelligent automation platform, Accenture myWizard, our cloud migration capabilities and use of lean engineering practices are transforming application management from a passive IT role to an active driver of business growth,” said Kishore Durg, Global Growth and Strategy Lead, Accenture Technology.
About Accenture
Accenture (NYSE: ACN) is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations. Combining unmatched experience and specialized skills across more than 40 industries and all business functions – underpinned by the world’s largest delivery network – Accenture works at the intersection of business and technology to help clients improve their performance and create sustainable value for their stakeholders. With approximately 435,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries, Accenture drives innovation to improve the way the world works and lives. Visit us at www.accenture.com .
Copyright © 2018 Accenture. All rights reserved. Accenture, its logo, and High Performance Delivered are trademarks of Accenture.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180125005136/en/
Accenture
Julie Bennink, 312-693-7301
julie.l.bennink@accenture.com
Source: Accenture