Memphis TN, Jan. 26, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Data Facts, Inc. a national and international provider of mortgage lending solutions, recently announced the promotion of seasoned sales veteran, Rory Tipton, to National Sales Manager of its Lending Division.
Julie Wink, Data Facts’ Executive Vice-President, made the announcement. “ It’s a pleasure to announce Rory’s well-deserved promotion,” said Wink. “His success is a combination of drive, superb relationship-building and selling skills, and a complete dedication to the importance of assisting our clients with closing more loans, faster and easier.”
Tipton has long been a high-performing Data Facts employee. Armed with twenty years of sales experience, he consistently performed as one of Data Facts’ top salespeople. Tipton received the Data Facts Eagle Award in 2016 and has held active roles in several Mortgage Bankers Associations.
Rory is excited to step into the new role. “I’m proud to be part of an organization that is so dedicated and committed to supporting their clients and the industry that it serves. I’m looking forward to doing my part to expand Data Facts’ footprint into new markets.”
Rory moved into the new role at the beginning of 2018 and is responsible for increasing the company’s salesforce, managing the Lending sales team’s success, and orchestrating profitable new sales initiatives.
About Data Facts
Since 1989, Data Facts , Inc. has provided trusted information to mortgage lending professionals to help them reach sound lending decisions. The company is committed to ongoing education and industry involvement to ensure they stay on the forefront of industry changes and regulations. This insight allows them to provide a suite of comprehensive solutions such as credit reports, fraud products, tax and social security verifications, flood solutions, and an appraisal ordering platform. All these help clients close more loans, faster and easier.
Their commitment to the above industry standards is proven by their NAPBS accreditation, sustaining SOC 2 certification, all staff members upholding FCRA certification, and maintaining active roles on the NCRA and multiple MBA boards.
Data Facts, Inc. was the proud recipient of the Commercial Appeal’s Top Workplace Award in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017.
In addition, Data Facts, Inc is certified by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) as a women-owned business.
For more information, please contact Data Facts, Inc. at 901-685-7599 or email info@datafacts.com . Subscribe to their lending solution blog follow them on Twitter at @dflending , and connect on LinkedIn at Data Facts, Inc . to stay abreast of industry updates.
Source: Data Facts