HOUSTON, Jan. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Hexagon PPM announces the acquisition of Plant Design Solutions (PDS), a Houston-based software and services distributor. With this announcement, the CADWorx® & Analysis Solutions group, part of Hexagon PPM, will transition to a U.S. direct sales model during the first quarter of 2018. “Over the years, we’ve had many requests from clients across the United States who want to work more directly with us. As these requests have grown, we have chosen to move to a direct sales model to more closely serve our U.S. clients,” said Rick Allen, president of CADWorx & Analysis Solutions. “The U.S. is our largest market and it’s important to have this direct interaction in the development of our products. The PDS acquisition will help us enhance our future interactions thanks to more direct engagement with clients.”
PDS and all of its employees are now part of Hexagon PPM. Clients can continue to work with their familiar PDS professionals. Len Kalmer, president of PDS, and Carl Adams, vice president of PDS, are now executive consultants with CADWorx & Analysis Solutions. “At PDS, our commitment to our clients has always come first,” said Kalmer. “We are very happy that our clients will still get the best support and services from the Hexagon PPM team.”
“We’ve worked closely with the CADWorx & Analysis Solutions group for many years,” said Adams. “We always felt like we were one team, and now we’re very excited to officially join Hexagon PPM.”
“We are growing with new hires in addition to the PDS employees coming on board. This is an exciting time for the group,” said Billy Rasco, vice president of Global Sales & Marketing at CADWorx & Analysis Solutions. To learn about career opportunities, please visit hexagonppm.com/careers .
For more information about CADWorx, visit http://hexagonppm.com/products/3d-product-family/cadworx . For information on analysis products, visit http://hexagonppm.com/products/analysis-product-family .
About CADWorx & Analysis Solutions
CADWorx & Analysis Solutions is part of Hexagon PPM. It develops and supports the following products: CADWorx®, for plant design; CAESAR II®, for pipe stress analysis; PV Elite®, for pressure vessel analysis; and GT STRUDL®, for structural analysis.
Hexagon PPM is the world’s leading provider of asset life cycle solutions for design, construction, and operation of industrial facilities. By transforming unstructured information into a smart digital asset, our clients are empowered to visualize, build, and manage structures and facilities of all complexities, ensuring safe and efficient operation throughout the entire life cycle.
PPM is part of Hexagon (Nasdaq Stockholm: HEXA B; http://hexagon.com/ ), a leading global provider of information technology solutions that drive productivity and quality across geospatial and industrial landscapes.
© 2018 Hexagon AB and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights reserved.
Contact
Gary Carson
+1.713.668.8550
gcarson@equamark.com
Source: Hexagon