BOSTON, Blueday Inc. , provider of the leading Store Revenue Management system for retail, today introduced Graeme Grant, former Salesforce Commerce Cloud Vice-President, as CEO and Board Member. In conjunction with Mr. Grant joining, Blueday Inc. also announced a growth equity investment from Radian Capital.
"In today's omni-channel world, stores are vital to a retailer's fortunes. Blueday answers the essential question facing retailers today: how do I get my stores to perform to their highest potential? Blueday has cracked that problem and demonstrated powerful results with some of the best retailers in the world," said Grant. "The technology is ground-breaking and the team at Blueday is world-class. I could not be more excited to join them, especially now when the need for our solution is so urgent."
Previously, Mr. Grant held leadership positions with Salesforce Commerce Cloud, Demandware, and Oracle Retail and was a key executive in several successful retail-focused start-ups. He helped found CQuotient, a predictive intelligence company acquired by Demandware; was an early leader at ProfitLogic, a pioneer in algorithmic modeling acquired by Oracle; and was a top executive at Allurent, a groundbreaking merchandising solution for ecommerce.
"Blueday is the right solution at the right time for retail. It has everything we look for in a successful company: a solution to a mission-critical problem, great technology, and a fantastic team with deep industry expertise. The solution is incredible, and we are over-joyed to partner in Blueday's future growth," said Weston Gaddy, Partner and co-founder of Radian Capital.
Blueday Inc. is the next chapter for The Yacobian Group which has 25 years of experience helping retailers improve conversion and basket size in stores. Blueday's Store Revenue Management system is the technological embodiment of this expertise and is now available as a SaaS product. Blueday generates powerful results for retailers like Victoria's Secret, Staples, and Advanced Auto Parts.
"Graeme brings an incredible track record of success and shares our passion for retail," said Toni Yacobian, co-founder of The Yacobian Group. "With his leadership, combined with Radian's support and strategic capital, we are poised to transform the retail industry. We are so excited that Graeme and Radian are joining us on our journey."
About Blueday : https://www.blueday.com
Blueday is the leading Store Revenue Management system. Delivered as a SaaS application, Blueday enables store managers to meet and exceed sales targets. It is the first retail system to link corporate growth strategies to individualized, measurable actions that maximize sales in every store, every day.
About Radian Capital : https://www.radiancapital.com/
Radian Capital is a $150 million growth equity fund. Radian partners with strong management teams and systematically accelerates growth by driving adoption of next generation sales and marketing, data science, and operational techniques. Founded in 2016, Radian is headquartered in New York City.
Media Contact:
Heather Lemoine
hlemoine@blueday.com
(978) 461-4527
 with multimedia: releases/blueday-inc-announces-graeme-grant-as-ceo-and-growth-equity-financing-from-radian-capital-300589067.html
SOURCE Blueday Inc.