BENTON HARBOR, Mich., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) will release its fourth-quarter financial results and presentation materials at 4:30 p.m. ET on Wednesday, January 24, 2018. Whirlpool Corporation will then hold a conference call to discuss its performance with the investment community at 8 a.m. ET on Thursday, January 25, 2018.
Additionally, anticipated timing and date information for fiscal year 2018 earnings conference calls is now available under the Events & Presentations section of the Company's investor relations web site. Anticipated timing and date information posted to the Company's web site should be considered tentative until confirmed by the Company via press release.
To participate in the conference call, dial (800) 895-0231 and use confirmation code Whirlpool. International participants should dial (785) 424-1054 and use confirmation code Whirlpool.
The conference call will be webcast live on the Company's web site at www.whirlpoolcorp.com and may be accessed by clicking on the "Investors" tab located at the top of the page. To listen to the live webcast, participants should visit the site at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to download any required streaming media software. Key financial statistics, the earnings presentation and an archived recording of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site for at least 30 days.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) is the number one major appliance manufacturer in the world, with approximately $21 billion in annual sales, 93,000 employees and 70 manufacturing and technology research centers throughout the world in 2016. The company markets Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Maytag, Consul, Brastemp, Amana, Bauknecht, Jenn-Air, Indesit and other major brand names in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the Company can be found at whirlpoolcorp.com , or find us on Twitter at @WhirlpoolCorp.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/whirlpool-corporation-to-announce-fourth-quarter-results-on-january-24-and-hold-conference-call-on-january-25-300581714.html
SOURCE Whirlpool Corporation