SOMERSET, N.J. & ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- SHI International Corp. , one of North America’s top 10 largest IT solutions providers, has acquired eTelligent Solutions, Inc. (ESI), maker of the industry’s most robust and adaptable Technology Asset Management (TAM) platform. The cloud-based ESI platform will add depth and breadth to SHI’s already comprehensive asset lifecycle services, from requisition through to decommission, to help customers better manage their IT and make more informed technology decisions.
“This acquisition will be seamless and builds on our world-class asset management capabilities,” said Thai Lee, President and CEO of SHI International. “Asset Management is a critical business need that supports security, effective data management, and compliance. Knowing which technology supports your overall strategy, reduces costs, and improves productivity drives business decisions every day. Given our long term relationship with ESI, our customers can expect the same high level of service.”
SHI and ESI have been strategic partners for four years and this acquisition finalizes a tools and systems integration that has naturally developed between the two companies. This unification of ESI’s asset management platform with the consulting expertise of SHI’s ITAM professionals will help SHI continue to lead the industry in shaping how customers acquire and manage their technology assets.
The TAM platform allows customers to record, track, manage, and optimize their hardware and software/licenses through the complete lifecycle of the asset and beyond. While engaging in smart procurement practices, customers can simultaneously manage security, data, and compliance risks while maximizing the value their technology investments deliver.
“Every organization needs to balance the growing security and compliance risks with the many opportunities offered by today’s cloud-based technology,” said Neil Frodsham, SHI’s Global Director of ITAM Services. “The ESI platform is designed to provide easy management and world-class analytics that address the full range of technology procurement, deployment, and asset management issues. The integration of ESI technology with SHI’s unsurpassed hardware and software license expertise fortifies our companies’ shared mission: to deliver exceptional value and experience as we help customers select, deploy, and manage technology.”
As part of the acquisition, the entire ESI organization and all its assets are moving into the new eTelligent division of SHI, which will work to quickly expand the base TAM technology. By merging ESI’s technical capabilities with SHI’s expertise, resources, and real customer experiences, SHI can now better help organizations account for where and how their technology assets have been deployed and are being used. This holistic understanding of an organization’s technology supports intelligent decision-making and helps customers quickly adapt their asset management programs to account for cloud, SaaS, subscription licensing, and other new technologies.
For more information, please visit www.shi.com and blog.shi.com .
ABOUT SHI
Founded in 1989, SHI International Corp. is a $8.5 billion+ global provider of technology products and services. Driven by the industry's most experienced and stable sales force and backed by software volume licensing experts, hardware procurement specialists, and certified IT services professionals, SHI delivers custom IT solutions to Corporate, Enterprise, Public Sector, and Academic customers. With over 3,500 employees worldwide, SHI is the largest Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprise (MWBE) in the U.S. and is ranked 9th among CRN's Solution Provider 500 list of North American IT solution providers. For more information, visit https://www.SHI.com .
ABOUT ETELLIGENT
ETelligent Solutions, Inc (ESI) began operations in 2000. Our current methodologies and solutions have their roots in the lessons learned from over 20 years specializing in IT Asset Management. ESI takes that deep expertise in Asset Management and created a robust, extremely flexible platform that can automate and optimize IT Asset Management and Software Asset Management.
Press Resources:
SHI Corporate Website: http://www.SHI.com
SHI Blog: http://blog.SHI.com
SHI Twitter Handle: @SHI_Intl
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180122006207/en/
For SHI International:
Gregory FCA
Mike Lizun, 610-642-1435
Mike@GregoryFCA.com
Source: SHI International Corp.