Top News 
Trump Talks Testimony 
President Donald Trump is “looking forward” to testifying under oath to special counsel Robert Mueller in the latter’s Russian collusion probe. Trump also said he didn’t remember asking the FBI’s deputy director, Andrew McCabe, for whom he voted in the 2016 election. Politico 
Nassar Sentenced 
Former U.S. gymnastics team doctor Lawrence Nassar has been sentenced to between 40 and 175 years in prison, after pleading guilty to seven counts of criminal sexual misconduct. Judge Rosemarie Aquilina told the 54-year-old: “I just signed your death warrant.” Meanwhile, Michigan State University head Lou Anna Simon stepped down after being accused of helping Nassar cover up his crimes. BBC 
ECB QE Quandary 
European Central Bank officials are arguing over their next moves in the context of a strong Eurozone economy. Some officials want to head towards a wind-down of quantitative easing soon, in order to avoid an abrupt end to the strategy if the economy overheats. Others are more cautious. A decision will be made today. Wall Street Journal 
Italian Train Crash 
At least three people died and scores were injured after a commuter train heading into Milan derailed this morning. The Trenord train was coming from Cremona, in eastern Lombardy. Bloomberg Around the Water Cooler 
No Class Actions for Europe 
Facebook arch-nemesis Max Schrems has won a case at the EU’s top court that will allow him to sue the company in his native Austria over privacy violations. However, he failed to win the right to sue on behalf of thousands of other people—effectively ending his hopes of introducing class-action suits to the European stage. Fortune 
German Facebook Case 
Meanwhile, the German antitrust agency is floating the idea that Facebook could be banned from collecting and processing personal data from third-party websites, as a possible outcome of its probe into the company. “We are blazing a trail in this case,” cartel office chief Andreas Mundt said. Financial Times 
White House Drug Liaison Exits 
Taylor Weyeneth is stepping down as White House liaison to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, due to outrage over his appointment. The 24-year-old only graduated from college in May 2016, and his sole professional experience was working for the Trump campaign. Washington Post 
Russian Solidarity 
The Russian government promotes strong antipathy to homosexuality and “gay propaganda,” and the Russian establishment has duly professed outrage over a homoerotic parody video made by air-transport cadets. However, citizens young and old have expressed solidarity with the young soldiers by making their own versions of the video. New Yorker SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT 