WESTLAKE, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Sea-Land Chemical Company is pleased to announce it has expanded its operations team with the hiring of two new employees in supply chain and customer service. Gordon Kropp and Stephen Coburn join the team as the Supply Chain Analyst and Customer Service Specialist respectively.
Gordon joins Sea-Land as a Supply Chain Analyst with ten years of supply chain experience at The Lubrizol Corporation. He obtained his Bachelor of Science degree in supply chain management from Bowling Green State University. Stephen joins the company as a Customer Service Specialist with four years of industry and laboratory experience from PPG Industries, Inc. He earned his Bachelor of Science degree in biology from Cleveland State University.
“At Sea-Land, the mission to provide an exceptional experience for our customers and business partners is engrained in our culture and has been for over 50 years," stated Jennifer Alstadt, President. "Gordon and Stephen bring industry specific expertise that strengthens our commitment to these core values and delivering on customer promises. We are excited to have these two join our customer service and supply chain teams."
Founded in Cleveland, Ohio in 1964, Sea-Land Chemical Company is a 100% employee-owned distributor of specialty chemicals. The company provides a variety of products to the lubricants; household, industrial & institutional cleaner; coatings and adhesives; and rubber and plastics industries. The company employs technically adept sales professionals and serves markets across the United States and through its two subsidiaries, Canada and Europe. Currently, there are eight strategically located warehouses in North America and two warehouses in Europe.
If you would like more information about this topic, please contact Matthew Mapus at 440-871-7887 or email at marketing@sealandchem.com or visit sealandchem.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104005785/en/
Sea-Land Chemical Company
Matthew Mapus, 440-871-7887
marketing@sealandchem.com
sealandchem.com
Source: Sea-Land Chemical Company