A Call for Nominations
ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., January 23, 2018 — CNBC, First in Business Worldwide, today announced it is accepting nominations for its sixth annual CNBC Disruptor 50, an exclusive list of the most ambitious, innovative private companies transforming the economy and forcing public giants to rethink the way they do business.
The deadline to submit the nomination form is Friday, February 9, 2018 at 8:00pm ET. As in previous years, all private, independently-owned companies are eligible to submit, and any company founder or executive, representative of the company, or investors in the company are welcome to complete the nomination form.
Nominees will be put through a comprehensive and rigorous process of researching and scoring, across a wide range of quantitative and qualitative criteria.
Winners will be notified in April and the list will be published in May across CNBC's TV and Digital platforms.
In 2017, 838 companies submitted nominations from around the world. Companies with a combined valuation of more than $239 billion dollars earned a spot on the CNBC Disruptor 50 list by reimagining markets and harnessing breakthrough technologies with the hope of becoming tomorrow's great public companies. In fact, 2017 Disruptor 50 companies Blue Apron and MongoDB are already public, and Spotify and Dropbox are expected to go public in the near future.
To stay a part of the conversation, follow @CNBCDisruptors and #CNBCDisruptors on Twitter, and look for updates at disruptor50.cnbc.com .
For more information contact:
Jennifer Dauble
CNBC
t: 201.735.4721
m: 201.615.2787
e: jennifer.dauble@nbcuni.com
Emma Martin
CNBC
t: 201.735.4713
e: emma.martin@nbcuni.com
About CNBC:
With CNBC in the U.S., CNBC in Asia Pacific, CNBC in Europe, Middle East and Africa, and CNBC World, CNBC is the recognized world leader in business news and provides real-time financial market coverage and business information to more than 409 million homes worldwide, including more than 91 million households in the United States and Canada. CNBC also provides daily business updates to 400 million households across China. The network's 15 live hours a day of business programming in North America (weekdays from 4:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. ET) is produced at CNBC's global headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., and includes reports from CNBC News bureaus worldwide. CNBC at night features a mix of new reality programming, CNBC's highly successful series produced exclusively for CNBC and a number of distinctive in-house documentaries.
CNBC also has a vast portfolio of digital products which deliver real-time financial market news and information across a variety of platforms including: CNBC.com; CNBC PRO, the premium, integrated desktop/mobile service that provides live access to CNBC programming, exclusive video content and global market data and analysis; a suite of CNBC mobile products including the CNBC Apps for iOS, Android and Windows devices; and additional products such as the CNBC App for the Apple Watch and Apple TV.
Members of the media can receive more information about CNBC and its programming on the NBCUniversal Media Village Web site at http://www.nbcumv.com/programming/cnbc .
For more information about NBCUniversal, please visit http://www.NBCUniversal.com .