NEW CASTLE, Del.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Adesis, Inc. , a wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq:OLED), today announced that Joanne Johnson, Ph.D. has been appointed Vice President of Business Development.
“I am delighted to welcome Joanne to the rapidly growing team at Adesis,” said Andrew Cottone, Ph.D., President of Adesis, Inc. “Joanne brings a wealth of international experience across various aspects of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology business arenas. With her deep technical, marketing and leadership expertise, Joanne will help enhance our current collaborative relationships, develop new business opportunities, and expand our partnership engagements. I am confident that she will be a valuable asset in fostering our best-in-class customer management and fueling revenue and business growth for the Company.”
Prior to joining Adesis, Dr. Johnson was Vice President of Business Development at Asymchem, Inc. During her 9-year tenure, she gained broad and significant experience in building out global sales and support teams, and managed significant revenue growth. Dr. Johnson also brings technical and business-related experience from AMRI, Biofocus-DPI, the Cancer Research Campaign (CRC) and Acambis. Dr. Johnson received her Ph.D. from the University of Wales (UK) and her Bachelor's degree from Durham University (UK). She completed postdoctoral research at both Southampton and Cambridge.
“It is an incredibly exciting time to be joining Adesis,” said Joanne Johnson. “As a leading organic synthesis CRO (contract research organization) with a rich history of scientific excellence and the full support of its parent company, Universal Display Corporation, Adesis is uniquely positioned for its next phase of growth. To support its bustling customer pipeline, the Company is expanding its portfolio of discovery, development, and commercialization services as well as its headcount and footprint. I am thrilled to be part of the world-class team at Adesis and look forward to helping broaden its diverse customer base, and grow through strategic partnerships.”
About Adesis, Inc.
As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Display Corporation , Adesis, Inc. is a contract research organization (CRO) supporting the pharma, biotech, catalysis and a number of other industries. The CRO specializes in organic and organometallic synthesis, in milligrams to multi-kilogram quantities. Adesis has a business model of providing clients with organic chemistry services in three areas: early stage research, scale up and development, and specialty manufacturing. With over 20 years of success and approximately 60 chemists with extensive industry and professional experience, Adesis supports companies in various industries with small molecule organic chemistry expertise. Adesis provides a range of services that can supplement research and development efforts. It can also act as a specialty manufacturer to reinforce supply chains. To learn more about Adesis, please visit http://adesisinc.com/ .
About Universal Display Corporation
Universal Display Corporation (Nasdaq: OLED) is a leader in developing and delivering state-of-the-art, organic light emitting diode (OLED) technologies, materials and services to the display and lighting industries. To learn more about Universal Display Corporation, please visit http://www.oled.com .
All statements in this document that are not historical, such as those relating to the Company’s technologies and potential applications of those technologies, the Company’s expected results and future declaration of dividends, as well as the growth of the OLED and CRO market and the Company’s opportunities in that market, are forward-looking financial statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any in this document, as they reflect the Company’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to those contemplated. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in greater detail in Universal Display Corporation’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, in particular, the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Universal Display Corporation’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Universal Display Corporation disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained in this document.
(OLED-C)
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180104006266/en/
Adesis, Inc./ Universal Display Corporation:
Darice Liu, 609-671-0980 x570
investor@oled.com
media@oled.com
Source: Universal Display Corporation