WASHINGTON, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Steward Partners Holdings, LLC (Steward), the holding company for Steward Partners Global Advisory, announced today that Stuart A. McFarland, has joined as the ninth member of the firm's board of directors.
McFarland has extensive experience in executive leadership, Board of Director service, business development, corporate restructuring, finance, real estate, mortgage lending and securitization. Among other positions, McFarland has served as Executive Vice President Operations and Chief Financial Officer of Fannie Mae, CEO of National Permanent Savings Bank, CEO of Skyline Financial Services, US Bankruptcy Court Asset Manager of the EPIC Bankruptcy, Executive Vice President and General Manger, GE Capital Mortgage Services and President GE Capital Asset Management Corporation.
"Stuart shares our values and adds to an already highly esteemed board," said Jim Gold, Steward Partners' CEO. "Like our other board members, Stuart is renowned as a preeminent player in his field of expertise and has been celebrated for his influence and contributions to the companies, industries and communities he serves. I am grateful to Stuart and our other board members for the confidence they have shown in us through their commitment to Steward Partners," added Gold.
"We are delighted to welcome Stuart to our board of directors," said Hy Saporta, Steward Partners' President. "Stuart possesses a keen awareness of where the financial services industry is today and, more importantly, a vision for where it is headed in the future. His wealth of knowledge, vast industry experience and proven track record make him an ideal addition to our partnership."
"Working in the financial services industry for decades, you come to recognize innovation more than anything," commented McFarland. "What's astonishing about Steward Partners is that they have found it in one of the oldest and most established businesses that exist today. When I first learned about their model, I was very interested, but as I spent more time with the partners, I was eager to become a part of the team."
"Stuart's profound understanding of corporate finance and his extensive board experience are well known," said Michael McMahon, Steward Partners' chairman of the board. "This level of expertise complements the high-caliber experience of our other members, which, when viewed collectively, is simply remarkable. At its heart, Steward represents a philosophy that resonates with our partners, our board and the clients they serve."
Steward Partners' evolutionary model was launched as Steward Partners Global Advisory (SPGA) in late fall of 2013, initially focusing primarily on the East Coast. SPGA is further strengthened through a strategic association with Raymond James Financial Services. Steward's unique business model gained national attention by attracting high-end advisory teams into multiple markets in just over 4 years, a rare accomplishment for firms in the independent space.
From 1980 to 1985, McFarland was executive vice president for operations and chief financial officer of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae). At Fannie Mae, McFarland initially directed the reorganization of the asset acquisition programs and processes, and he developed and introduced the Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities program. He also directed the reorganization of the liability distribution processes, technology and systems, expanding Fannie Mae's debt distribution internationally. During McFarland's tenure, Fannie Mae reversed several years of losses, became a market service-oriented business and was repositioned for significant growth.
McFarland has testified before committees of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives on mortgage and real estate finance and securitization as well as related financial issues. He has served on numerous public and private company boards of directors. He is currently a board member and chairman of the audit committees of Drive Shack (formerly Newcastle Investment Corporation) and New Senior Investment Group, and he also serves on the boards of directors and the audit committees of the Brookfield Funds and the New America High Income Fund. He is a senior advisor to Baxter, Stinson, Polk, LLC. He additionally serves as a director and executive committee member of the Center for Housing Policy and as a Trustee Emeritus of the National Building Museum. McFarland holds a B.A. in Government and Law from Lafayette College.
About Steward Partners Global Advisory
With offices in Albany, N.Y., Andover and Boston, Mass., Baltimore and Bethesda, Md., Clearwater, Fla., Keene, Manchester and Portsmouth, N.H., Paramus, N.J., New York City and Washington DC, Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC, is an employee-owned, full-service independent partnership catering to family, institutional and multigenerational wealth.
For more information, visit us at www.stewardpartners.com .
About Raymond James Financial Services, Inc.
Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., is a financial services firm supporting more than 4,300 independent financial advisors nationwide. Since 1974, Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., member FINRA/SIPC, has provided a wide range of investment and wealth planning related services through its affiliate, Raymond James & Associates, Inc., member New York Stock Exchange/SIPC. Both broker/dealers are wholly owned subsidiaries of Raymond James Financial, Inc., a leading diversified financial services company with approximately 7,300 financial advisors in 3,000 locations throughout the United States, Canada and overseas. Total client assets are $704 billion. Stuart McFarland and Michael McMahon are not affiliated with Raymond James.
Steward Partners Holdings and Steward Partners Global Advisory, LLC, maintain a separate professional business relationship with, and our registered professionals offer securities through, Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., member FINRA/SIPC. Investment advisory services offered through Steward Partners Investment Advisory, LLC, 1776 I Street NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20006. Toll Free: (844) 801-8268.
Press Contact:
Gregory Banasz
202-930-6008
Greg.banasz@stewardpartners.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/steward-partners-continues-to-attract-top-c-suite-talent-adds-stuart-a-mcfarland-to-board-of-directors-300579170.html
SOURCE Steward Partners Holdings, LLC