DENVER, Jan. 10, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- TRELORA, Denver's flat-fee real estate brokerage, today announced an expansion of its executive team with the appointment of Eric Spery to Chief Technology Officer. As CTO, Spery will oversee TRELORA's technical vision and lead an ongoing evolution of the brokerage's platform to better serve Denver home buyers and sellers.
Spery will serve as an executive liaison to all other departments and report directly to TRELORA CEO Joshua Hunt.
"Unlike more traditional brokerages, TRELORA hasn't shied away from pushing the industry ahead with technology – we've built our entire business around its ability to provide the best possible customer experience. This driving force, coupled with our commitment to transparency throughout the buying and selling process, is what separates TRELORA from traditional brokerages and enables our world-class service for home buyers, sellers, agents, title companies and lenders alike," Hunt said. "As the company continues to grow, we need a CTO who can elevate our platform and user experience. Eric is always thinking about new ways to leverage technological advances in order to provide TRELORA users the best possible experience, and I look forward to seeing how he transforms TRELORA over the next several years."
Spery's impressive pedigree includes more than 20 years in the Colorado technology industry. Spery got his start as a Java developer at ServiceMagic - writing the first lines of code for what eventually became prominent home improvement service provider, HomeAdvisor - and quickly rose through the ranks, eventually holding the Vice President of Development role. Spery also led technology for local mobile financial advisor My Dobot and served as Vice President of Engineering at TRELORA. Spery is an alum of Colorado State University, holding a Master's Degree in Communications Development and a Bachelor's Degree in English.
"TRELORA isn't just making real estate better – they're re-inventing it," Spery said. "I'm eager to build out our development team and continue to establish TRELORA as the next generation of real estate."
About TRELORA
Since 2011, TRELORA has been committed to elevating the American family's home buying and selling experience. TRELORA provides the expertise of the top agents in the country, customer service second to none, and state-of-the-art technology to offer an unparalleled home buying and selling experience. It is TRELORA's unwavering dedication to move people's lives forward in a positive motion that has produced tens of millions in savings for buyers and sellers. For more information visit www.TRELORA.com . Follow TRELORA on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .
Press Contact
Holly Glisky
Barokas Public Relations for TRELORA
TRELORA@barokas.com
303-981-0471
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/trelora-strengthens-executive-team-with-promotion-of-eric-spery-to-chief-technology-officer-300580495.html
SOURCE TRELORA