PMI designs and manufactures low voltage and high current products ranging from < 1,000 Watts to > 30 kW per box
FAIR LAWN, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- United States Technologies-Aldetec Holding Company (“UST-Aldetec”), a global provider of manufacturing, design, engineering, repair and testing services, announced today its asset purchase of Pioneer Magnetics Inc a Santa Monica, California based company that specializes in the design, engineering, development, testing and manufacture of state-of-the-art switching power supplies for commercial telecommunications and Defense platforms.
PMI’s Power supply business is highly complementary to UST-Aldetec product and services portfolio and strengthens our position in the Power supply market.
About UST-Aldetec
UST-Aldetec Group is a consolidation of companies brought together to provide superior services and products to our Defense and Commercial customers. Together we are expert at RF detection, Frequency Conversion, Broadband Amplification, Power management, and repair/re-engineering of subsystems for obsolescence mitigation and extending system lifetime. Our teams can design, manufacture and support products seamlessly and rapidly. Our design turn averages less than 6 months from receiving a specification. Our goal is to provide high quality subsystems to our customers at an affordable price, and to keep them running with an exceptional MTBF. We are a certified small business, AS-9100 certified with over 40, 000 Square feet of manufacturing space.
Commenting on this transaction, UST-Aldetec CEO Robert Ferrante stated, “This transaction accelerates and dramatically expands our market presence for the design and manufacturing of high quality switching power supplies. Adding this capability to our current portfolio allows UST-Aldetec to design and manufacture from aperture to processor with all of the necessary subsystems to support our OEM customer base. This purchase helps expand our position as a growing industry leader with the scale, customer relationships, innovative product and technology to drive exceptional growth and a clear path forward.”
Gary Grutkowski, UST President, added “The Pioneer Magnetics family of power supplies is entirely synergistic with UST’s capabilities and long history of power supply manufacture and repair. By strengthening our library of designs in this way we can serve a larger and more diversified group of customers.”
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005552/en/
UST-Aldetec
Paul Skolnick, 201-475-8700 ext. 218
VP Sales and Marketing
Source: UST-Aldetec