WALTHAM, Mass., Histogenics Corporation (Histogenics) (Nasdaq:HSGX), a leader in the development of restorative cell therapies, today announced the closing of its previously announced underwritten registered direct offering of 2,691,494 shares of its common stock, which includes 351,064 shares sold in connection with the exercise in full by the underwriter of its option to purchase additional shares. The total net proceeds of the offering are approximately $5.9 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions payable by Histogenics.
Canaccord Genuity acted as the sole book-running manager for the offering.
A shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-216741) relating to the underwritten registered direct offering of the shares of common stock described above was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and declared effective by the SEC on March 30, 2017. A final prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to and describing the terms of the offering was filed with the SEC on January 24, 2018 and is available on the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov . Copies of the prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to these securities may also be obtained by sending a request to Canaccord Genuity Inc., Attention: Syndicate Department, 99 High Street, 12th Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, by telephone at (617) 371-3900, or by email at prospectus@canaccordgenuity.com .
About Histogenics Corporation
Histogenics (Nasdaq:HSGX) is a leader in the development of restorative cell therapies that may offer rapid-onset pain relief and restored function. Histogenics’ lead investigational product, NeoCart, is designed to rebuild a patient’s own knee cartilage to treat pain at the source and potentially prevent a patient’s progression to osteoarthritis. NeoCart is one of the most rigorously studied restorative cell therapies for orthopedic use. Histogenics recently completed enrollment of its NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial and expects to report top-line, one-year superiority data in the third quarter of 2018. NeoCart is designed to perform like articular hyaline cartilage at the time of treatment, and as a result, may provide patients with more rapid pain relief and accelerated recovery as compared to the current standard of care. Histogenics’ technology platform has the potential to be used for a broad range of additional restorative cell therapy indications.
Contact: Investor Relations Tel: +1 (781) 547-7909 InvestorRelations@histogenics.com
Source:Histogenics Corporation