SEATTLE, Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- TUNE , the global leaders in marketing and advertising measurement, announced the promotion of Brian Marcus to Vice President of Global Marketing.
Brian brings more than two decades of digital marketing leadership and expertise to the company, including 10 years building and managing high-performance teams at Google, Ebay and Teespring. In this new role, he will focus on extending TUNE's market leading position within the Fortune 1,000, where TUNE's suite of performance marketing solutions help companies find and win new customers at scale. In addition, Brian will oversee the global expansion of the TUNE brand, narrative and go-to-market activities.
"Brian is an outstanding leader who knows the marketing world inside and out, and in fact helped create several of the largest and most successful performance marketing programs to date," said Ryan Buma, Chief Commercial Officer at TUNE. "He's played a pivotal role in the creation, execution and expansion of enterprise-focused marketing initiatives that enable us to drive new sales around the world. Not only is he a world-class marketer, but he's also one of the most passionate competitors I've ever met. Brian is the perfect person to lead TUNE marketing efforts."
Prior to TUNE, Brian served as Global Director of the eBay Partner Network, eBay's largest paid acquisition channel at the time. At eBay, Brian and his team drove double-digit growth and marketing efficiency gains while simplifying the program for thousands of affiliate publishers. Prior to his work at eBay, Brian was a leader at Google, where his team launched Google's first full-scale affiliate network, Google Affiliate Network (GAN). Under Brian's leadership, GAN managed thousands of affiliate programs that ranged from the world's largest retailers and credit card issuers to self-service advertisers, and launched the original beta platform for what has evolved into Google's Product Listing Ads. While at Google, his team helped grow top-line revenue more than 30 percent year over year, and drove over $1B in online retail sales through the platform annually.
Most recently, Brian served as Vice President of Marketing and General Manager at Teespring, a venture-funded custom apparel company. While in this role he was responsible for building and marketing the industry's best e-commerce platform to talented creators and performance marketers.
"Over the course of my career, I've had a chance to meet and work with many amazing people in the performance marketing space," said Brian Marcus, VP of Marketing at TUNE. "I've always admired the TUNE team for its inventiveness and persistence in the creation of the first SaaS performance marketing and mobile attribution platform. As mobile and performance intersect to create new channels of revenue for CMOs and digital marketers, TUNE is poised to continue shaping the industry. I'm thrilled to play an important role in this mission."
About TUNE
TUNE delivers innovative measurement solutions that help marketers and their partners effectively manage campaigns, engage the right audiences, optimize ad performance, and grow their business. TUNE's solutions are trusted by innovative mobile marketers, the largest advertising platforms, and the world's most iconic brands. Headquartered in Seattle, Washington with over 300 employees in nine offices worldwide, TUNE solutions are used by Expedia, CVS, Subway, The New York Times, Line Corporation and more. For more information visit: www.tune.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tune-taps-brian-marcus-as-vice-president-of-global-marketing-300586427.html
SOURCE TUNE