BRISTOL, Tenn., Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- UPM Pharmaceuticals, a Contract Development and Manufacturing Organization (CDMO) focused on solid oral and semi-solid dosage forms, has appointed Chris Curtin as Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Curtin was promoted from his previous role as Executive Vice President of Quality Operations. Mr. Curtin will lead the organization responsible for Research & Development, Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, Inventory Management, Quality Control and Analytical Services.
Jim Gregory, CEO of UPM Pharmaceuticals, stated "Chris brings a tremendous amount of industry experience and expertise. We feel strongly that Chris is perfectly positioned to lead UPM into the next phase of growth. Chris has been instrumental in putting quality processes in place across the organization and we are confident that under his guidance, UPM will continue to grow and strive for excellence."
Mr. Curtin has held executive management positions at Parke-Davis/Warner Lambert, King Pharmaceuticals, Graceway Pharmaceuticals, Rockward Pharmaceutical Consultants, Actient Pharmaceuticals and more recently Lynwood Pharmaceuticals. He has overseen the design, construction and validation of multiple pharmaceutical facilities and utility systems covering all dosage forms both in the US and OUS.
At King Pharmaceuticals Mr. Curtin was Executive Vice President Quality Operations and responsible for the Quality Operations of five US based manufacturing sites covering all dosage forms. And at Graceway Pharmaceuticals as Executive Vice President Technical Operations, he was responsible for all Quality, Supply Chain, Manufacturing and Engineering Operations for US, Canada and Mexico. This included oversight of seven Contract Manufacturing Organizations producing sterile, solid and semi-solid dosage forms at US and OUS sites.
"In my role as COO I look forward to enhancing UPM's presence and marketability in the CDMO space by utilizing the talents and technical skills of all our UPM colleagues to enhance systems, processes and capabilities," Mr. Curtin stated.
About UPM Pharmaceuticals
UPM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is an independent drug development and contract manufacturer serving the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We provide high quality drug development services including custom formulation development, cGMP clinical and commercial manufacturing, analytical methods services, and stability testing. UPM's clients enjoy service that is customized and fast with total quality management characteristics of a customer focused business. Our history includes successful collaborative interactions with small virtual and large billion dollar companies providing customized product development services and solutions. UPM focuses on drug development for dosages with oral routes of administration, in solid dosage forms such as capsules and tablets, and semi-solid creams and ointments. Our 475,000 square foot commercial manufacturing facility based in Bristol, Tennessee allows us to serve our clients' needs from early stage development to large scale commercial production. More at www.upm-inc.com
For more information:
Mary Lee Schiesz
Manager of Marketing
Email: mschiesz@upm-inc.com
Phone: +1 (423) 989-7057
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/upm-pharmaceuticals-appoints-chris-curtin-as-chief-operating-officer-300585238.html
SOURCE UPM Pharmaceuticals