SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 19, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Clarus Corporation (NASDAQ:CLAR) (“Clarus” and/or the “Company”), a diversified holding company which seeks opportunities to acquire and grow businesses that can generate attractive shareholder returns, through its Black Diamond® and Sierra® brands, will be hosting investor and analyst meetings at three large winter trade shows happening this January.
Members of Clarus’ senior management as well as product and marketing leadership will showcase a variety of new products for fall 2018. Category directors will be available to provide the story behind the products as well as the creative marketing campaigns that will support their launch.
Management will be available at each respective show as noted below.
SHOT Show
Brand highlighted: Sierra
Investor meeting availability: January 23, 2018
Location: Sands Expo Center, Las Vegas, NV
Booth #: 16334
Outdoor Retailer
Brand highlighted: Black Diamond
Investor meeting availability: January 25-26, 2018
Location: Colorado Convention Center, Denver, CO
Booth #: 32009-UL
ISPO Munich
Brand highlighted: Black Diamond
Investor meeting availability: January 29-30, 2018
Location: Messe München Exhibition Grounds, Munich, Germany
Booth #: A3: 402
To attend, please RSVP to Clarus’ investor relations firm:
Liolios
Cody Slach
Tel 1-949-574-3860
CLAR@liolios.com
About Clarus Corporation
Clarus Corporation is a holding company which seeks opportunities to acquire and grow businesses that can generate attractive shareholder returns. The Company has substantial net operating tax loss carryforwards which it is seeking to redeploy to maximize shareholder value in a diverse array of businesses. Presently, through its Outdoor Group, Clarus’ primary business is as a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of outdoor equipment and lifestyle products focused on the climb, ski, mountain, and technical categories. The Company’s products are principally sold under the Black Diamond®, Sierra® and PIEPS® brand names through specialty and online retailers, distributors and original equipment manufacturers throughout the U.S. and internationally. For additional information, please visit www.claruscorp.com or the brand websites at www.blackdiamondequipment.com , www.sierrabullets.com or www.pieps.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Please note that in this press release we may use words such as “appears,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “future,” and similar expressions which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting the Company and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of the Company to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include, but are not limited to, the overall level of consumer spending on our products; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; the financial strength of the Company's customers; the Company's ability to implement its growth strategy, including its ability to organically grow each of its historical product lines, the ability of the Company to identify potential acquisition or investment opportunities as part of its redeployment and diversification strategy; the Company’s ability to successfully redeploy its capital into diversifying assets or that any such redeployment will result in the Company’s future profitability; the Company’s ability to successfully integrate Sierra Bullets, L.L.C.; the Company’s exposure to product liability or product warranty claims and other loss contingencies; stability of the Company's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; the Company's ability to protect patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products as well as foreign currency fluctuations; our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. All forward-looking statements included in this press release are based upon information available to the Company as of the date of this press release, and speak only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
Company Contact:
Warren B. Kanders
Executive Chairman
Tel 1-203-552-9600
warren.kanders@claruscorp.com
or
Aaron Kuehne
Chief Administrative Officer and
Chief Financial Officer
Tel 1-801-993-1364
aaron.kuehne@claruscorp.com
Investor Relations:
Liolios
Cody Slach
Tel 1-949-574-3860
CLAR@liolios.com
Source:Clarus Corporation