HOUSTON, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Archrock Partners, L.P. (NASDAQ:APLP) (“Archrock Partners”), today announced a cash distribution of $0.285 per common unit, a rate of $1.14 per common unit on an annualized basis, payable on February 13, 2018, to unitholders of record at the close of business on February 8, 2018. The fourth quarter 2017 distribution covers the period from October 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017.
The fourth quarter 2017 distribution to be paid in February 2018 is unchanged from the third quarter 2017 distribution.
About Archrock Partners
Archrock Partners, a master limited partnership, is the leading provider of natural gas contract compression services to customers in the oil and natural gas industry throughout the United States. Archrock, Inc. (NYSE:AROC) owns an equity interest in Archrock Partners, including all of the general partner interest. For more information, visit www.archrock.com .
Non-U.S. Withholding Information
This press release is intended to be a qualified notice under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1446-4(b). Brokers and nominees should treat one hundred percent (100.0%) of Archrock Partners’ distributions to non-U.S. investors as being attributable to income that is effectively connected with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, Archrock Partners’ distributions to non-U.S. investors are subject to federal income tax withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which may include statements about Archrock Partners’ distributions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or actions. Forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. Archrock Partners expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in Archrock Partners’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, and as set forth from time to time in Archrock Partners’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available online at www.sec.gov and www.archrock.com .
For information, contact:
David Skipper, 281-836-8155
Source:Archrock Partners, L.P.