Dallas Texas, -- Bayport International Holdings, Inc. (OTC Pink: BAYP) is pleased to announce that it has entered into negotiations to acquire a minority interest in 420skybnb.com , a cannabis lifestyle traveling accommodations platform.
The 420skybnb platform connects cannabis travelers with cannabis-friendly hosts, which offer short-term housing accommodations. The Company is a cannabis technology company that ultimately is focused on capitalizing on the massive cannabis tourism industry.
According to a 2015 report from Colorado Tourism Office, a “survey of 3,250 tourists from Chicago, Dallas, Houston, San Diego, and other cities” showed that 8% reported visiting a recreational-use cannabis store. Interestingly enough, 85% of the tourists said that cannabis was their “primary motivator” for coming to visit Colorado.
As several more states continue to legalize recreational cannabis, the cannabis tourism phenomenon will continue to spread to these newly-legalized havens. California recently became a recreational market, and there are 250 million tourists coming into the California market annually. 420skybnb is the perfect platform for cannabis tourists to experience each of these states in a friendly and tolerant environment.
Similarly, 420skybnb supports cannabis entrepreneurs that seek to become hosts on the platform. This allows hosts to temporarily rent out their living space to other cannabis enthusiasts and earn money in exchange.
Bayport sees cannabis tourism as an overlooked segment of the overall industry. With 420skybnb’s cannabis technology platform geared towards travel and tourism, management sees the company as a natural fit within Bayport’s expanding platform ecosystem. Further details on the negotiations are expected shortly.
For more information on 420skybnb, check out https://420skybnb.com .
You can also see 420skybnb’s Apple and Android apps here:
https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/420skybnb/id1239681277?mt=8
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.skybnb.app&amp;hl=en
About Bayport International Holdings, Inc. (OTC PINK: BAYP):
Bayport International Holdings, Inc. is a holding company active within the cannabis technology industry. Through its Weedwiser.com and Ecannago.com digital platforms, the company seeks to be a leader in the emerging cannabis technology industry. Furthermore, the company is currently evaluating acquisitions within the industry. Learn more about the company by visiting http://www.weedwiser.com , www.ecannago.com and www.baypcanna.com .
Safe Harbor
This release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements appear in a number of places in this release and include all statements that are not statements of historical fact regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Bayport International Holdings, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) financing plans; (ii) trends affecting its financial condition or results of operations; (iii) growth strategy and operating strategy. The words "may," "would," "will," "expect," "estimate," "can," "believe," "potential" and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Bayport International Holding's ability to control, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. More information about the potential factors that could affect the business and financial results is and will be included in Bayport International Holding's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bayport International Holdings, Inc. 3838 Oak Lawn Avenue Suite 1000 Dallas, Texas 75219 Phone: 888-574-5505 www.baypcanna.com Investor Relations Contact: Spotlight Growth Matt Rego mrego@spotlightgrowth.com
Source:Bayport International Holdings, Inc.