NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Today Adtelligent, formerly known as VertaMedia, announced the start of their rebranding campaign, fueling the next phase of their growth. One of America's fastest-growing private companies according to Inc. 5000 and Deloitte's Technology Fast 500™, Adtelligent celebrates its tenth anniversary in 2018 with a new name and the launch of their Header Bidding Management Platform.
The renaming of the company to Adtelligent signifies a shift in vision to building bespoke ad technology for publishers. In the current era of programmatic automation and in-sourcing, publishers no longer need a long list of intermediaries to deliver optimal yield. What comes back to the forefront of the media business is direct relationships between publishers and advertisers. Adtelligent aims to simplify programmatic monetization for publishers while at the same time empowering them to intelligently take more control of their programmatic selling process.
"I joined Adtelligent because I believe in the company's mission of giving control back to publishers. For too long, publishers have been disintermediated from their buyers by the ad tech industry. We should be solving publisher pain points with elegant software, not reaching into their pockets at every step in the programmatic monetization process," – Diego Sanchez, CEO of Adtelligent.
Adtelligent recently launched the Header Bidding Management Platform from beta stage and has already signed its first handful of customers. HBMP is the first user interface for header bidding that is built on the Prebid framework, syncs with DFP via API, allows real-time addition or deletion of bidders, and includes robust unified reporting and analytics. HBMP allows publishers to launch, manage, and optimize their header auctions for display and outstream video with minimal engineering resources and no ad ops resources.
About Adtelligent
Adtelligent ( https://adtelligent.com ) is a sell side ad technology company providing holistic demand management and intermediation solutions for publishers. By integrating ad serving for desktop and video, header wrapper capabilities, and outstream functionality into one holistic stack, Adtelligent has established a new standard for selling inventory to programmatic buyers. The company is headquartered in New York City, NY, USA with offices in Odessa and Kiev, Ukraine and expanding geographies around the World. Adtelligent produces all of its technology in house and has been acknowledged as one of the fastest growing independent technology companies by Inc. 5000 Deloitte's Technology Fast 500™ in 2016 and 2017.
Contact: Anna Koicheva, +1-646-583-0196, a.koicheva@adtelligent.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/vertamedia-the-global-video-technology-provider-rebrands-to-adtelligent-300591010.html
SOURCE Adtelligent