SAUGUS, Calif., Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hasa, Inc. ("Hasa" or the "Company"), a leading producer and distributor of high quality water treatment products used to sanitize and maintain water systems, today announced that Ryan Bennett has been appointed Vice President of Sales, effective immediately. Mr. Bennett will be charged with leading sales and account management nationwide and will report directly to Rory Manley, Chief Executive Officer of Hasa.
Mr. Bennett has extensive experience across the areas of sales, marketing and product management. Prior to joining Hasa, Mr. Bennett served as Director of Sales of Evoqua Water Technologies, a global water-filtration business. Prior to Evoqua, Ryan held various sales roles of increasing responsibility with Pentair, a diversified industrial and pool products business, including most recently as a Director of Sales. Before joining Pentair, Mr. Bennett held roles at NALCO Chemical Company, Metso Paper, and Weyerhaeuser.
"We are excited to announce to our valued customer base and business partners that Ryan is joining the Hasa team," Rory Manley commented. "The addition of Ryan represents our continued commitment to providing our customers with the highest quality products and service. We are confident Ryan will help drive our ambitious growth and expansion initiatives in the years to come."
Mr. Bennett earned an MBA from the WP Carey School of Business at Arizona State University and a Bachelor of Science in Paper Science and Engineering from Miami University in Oxford, OH.
ABOUT HASA, INC.
Hasa, Inc. is a leading producer and distributor of high quality water treatment products used to sanitize and maintain water systems, including swimming pools, water tanks and containment vessels for recreational, industrial and municipal end markets. Founded in 1964, the company operates across five facilities in California, Arizona, Washington and Texas.
Media Contact:
Daniel Yunger
KEKST
212-521-4800
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ryan-bennett-named-vp-of-sales-for-hasa-inc-300582907.html
SOURCE Hasa, Inc.