Shannon offers strengths in aligning global commercial teams with business and client goals as CCO
SAN DIEGO & RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Synteract , a full-service, international contract research organization (CRO), announces that Jack Shannon has joined as chief commercial officer. He joins Synteract from Chiltern, a Covance company, where he was vice president, Global Business Development Biopharma. As CCO at Synteract, Shannon will oversee the global sales and marketing functions to drive growth in market share and the integrated commercial success of the organization.
“Jack is an exceptional addition to our executive leadership team, and he will be a huge asset for us as we advance Synteract’s top-tier positioning in the industry,” said Steve Powell , CEO of Synteract. “Jack and I have worked together previously and with his experience we will continue to build our global business development and operational partnerships that address our customers’ needs. His knowledge of growing highly-effective international sales teams will provide Synteract and our partners the support they need for continued collaboration and growth.”
Shannon brings 17 years of CRO and pharma/biotech industry experience in leading global sales and marketing teams. During his time in the industry, he has worked with clients ranging from small biotech to large pharma, providing solutions that address their specific needs. In his role as vice president, Global Business Development Biopharma, at Chiltern, he was responsible for managing the global biopharma sales team in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Prior to that, he spent seven years at PRA Health Sciences, as executive director, Business Development, managing key strategic partnerships and the inside sales team. He also held several senior roles in business development and proposals over a seven-year period with Quintiles (now IQVIA).
He holds a Master of Business Administration degree from New York Institute of Technology, where he graduated with distinction.
About Synteract
With 800 staff members across 21 countries, Synteract is an international full-service contract research organization supporting biopharmaceutical companies in all phases of clinical development. Synteract has conducted Phase I-IV studies on six continents and in more than 60 countries, offering a notable depth of expertise in oncology, CNS, and ophthalmology, indications, as well as rare and orphan, pediatric and immunotherapy studies. With its “ Shared Work – Shared Vision ” philosophy, Synteract provides customized services collaboratively, ensuring on-time delivery of quality data to help bring tomorrow’s treatments to patients.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005999/en/
For Synteract
Hilary McCarthy, 508-829-2543
hilary@clearpointagency.com
Source: Synteract