Arlington, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility ( Responsibility.org ) is proud to welcome Mast-Jägermeister US as its newest member. As a member of Responsibility.org , Mast-Jägermeister US joins eight other leading distillers to collectively fight drunk driving and underage drinking and promote responsible decision-making regarding beverage alcohol.
“We are excited to welcome Mast-Jägermeister US and CEO Jeffrey Popkin to our Board of Directors,” said Ralph Blackman, president and CEO of Responsibility.org . “Parent company Mast-Jägermeister SE has long been committed to keeping alcohol out of the hands of minors and works tirelessly to ensure the legal and responsible consumption of their products. The company’s decision to become a member of our organization underscores that commitment.”
Established in 2017, Mast-Jägermeister US is a subsidiary of Mast-Jägermeister SE and is solely responsible for the distribution, marketing and advertising of Jägermeister in the United States.
“We understand the immense duty we have to ensure our product is consumed responsibly and are excited to join Responsibility.org this year,” said Jeffrey Popkin, CEO of Mast-Jägermeister US. “The organization’s distinguished Board is committed to reducing alcohol-related harms and promote responsible drinking, and I look forward to working with the other industry members to continue our shared commitment.”
For more information, visit Responsibility.org .
###
About the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility
The Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility ( Responsibility.org ) is a national not-for-profit that leads the fight to eliminate drunk driving and underage drinking and is funded by the following distillers: Bacardi U.S.A., Inc.; Beam Suntory Inc.; Brown-Forman; Constellation Brands, Inc.; DIAGEO; Edrington; Hood River Distillers, Inc.; Mast-Jägermeister US; and Pernod Ricard USA. Recognizing 25 years of impact, Responsibility.org has transformed countless lives through programs that bring individuals, families and communities together to guide a lifetime of conversations around alcohol responsibility and offering proven strategies to stop impaired driving. To learn more, please visit us at www.responsibility.org .
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/240ee40f-cecb-4839-ba47-79c6776dbf90
Georgia Cassady Responsibility.org 2023551947 georgia.cassady@responsibility.org
Source: Responsibility.org