NEW YORK, Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Guggenheim Securities, the investment banking and capital markets division of Guggenheim Partners, announced today that Robert Minear has joined the firm as a Senior Managing Director in Healthcare investment banking, with a focus on advising companies in the healthcare services sector.
Mr. Minear joins Guggenheim with more than 17 years of investment banking experience, having most recently served as Managing Director in Jefferies Group’s Healthcare investment banking practice. Prior to joining Jefferies Group, Mr. Minear was a member of the M&A groups at UBS, both in New York and London, and Deutsche Bank.
“Robert is a fantastic addition to our leading healthcare franchise,” said Mark Van Lith, Co-CEO and Head of Investment Banking at Guggenheim Securities. “Over his career Robert has demonstrated a strong commitment to providing his clients with world class advice. I look forward to his continued success at Guggenheim.”
Mr. Minear received his master’s degree in Aeronautical Engineering from Imperial College, University of London. He is based in Guggenheim’s New York office.
About Guggenheim Securities
Guggenheim Securities is the investment banking and capital markets business of Guggenheim Partners, a global investment and advisory firm. Guggenheim Securities offers services that fall into four broad categories: Advisory, Financing, Sales and Trading, and Research. Guggenheim Securities is headquartered in New York, with additional offices in Chicago, Boston, Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Houston. For more information, please contact us at GSinfo@GuggenheimPartners.com or 212.518.9200.
About Guggenheim Partners
Guggenheim Partners is a global investment and advisory firm with more than $295 billion 1 in assets under management. Across our three primary businesses of investment management, investment banking, and insurance services, we have a track record of delivering results through innovative solutions. With over 2,300 professionals based in more than 25 offices around the world, our commitment is to advance the strategic interests of our clients and to deliver long-term results with excellence and integrity. We invite you to learn more about our expertise and values by visiting GuggenheimPartners.com and following us on Twitter at twitter.com/guggenheimptnrs .
1 Assets under management are as of 09.30.2017 and include consulting services for clients whose assets are valued at approximately $63bn.
Media Contact
Ellen Cunningham
Guggenheim Partners
212.518.9578
Ellen.N.Cunningham@GuggenheimPartners.com
Source:Guggenheim Securities