SKOKIE, Ill., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The AZEK Company, the industry-leading manufacturer of beautiful, low-maintenance residential and commercial building products, has named Jeanine Gaffke as the company's new chief marketing officer.
Gaffke will oversee the planning, development and execution of AZEK ® Building Products' marketing and advertising initiatives. Her primary responsibilities include strategic development of branding, market research, consumer advertising, channel strategy, pricing, digital, social media and integrated communications.
"We are thrilled to welcome Jeanine to our growing and motivated executive team at a pivotal time for our company," said Jesse Singh, CEO of The AZEK Company. "Jeanine will play an integral role as we build our AZEK Building Products premium brand portfolio and provide new offerings to our customers."
Prior to joining The AZEK Company, Gaffke was vice president of marketing and business development at Emerson, where she led Emerson's organic growth initiatives, marketing, communications and digital efforts for the company's Commercial and Residential Solutions division. Gaffke has also held a variety of leadership positions at Sealed Air Corporation, The Hershey Company and Ariel Investments.
"I am excited about what is happening at The AZEK Company. We have a solid portfolio, great stories to tell and a terrific network of dealers and contractors who help our products make a difference in the lives of people every day," said Gaffke. "As chief marketing officer, I couldn't be happier about this chance to bring these stories to life and explore the amazing future ahead of us."
About The AZEK Company
The AZEK Company LLC is an industry-leading manufacturer of beautiful, low-maintenance residential and commercial building products, committed to innovation, sustainability and research and design. Headquartered in Skokie, IL, in the greater Chicago area, the company also operates highly automated manufacturing facilities in Scranton, PA, and Wilmington, OH. The company's products are marketed under several brands, including AZEK ® and TimberTech ® for residential building materials, Scranton Products for commercial building materials, and Vycom for industrial building materials. For additional information, visit azekco.com .
Press Contact:
Kelly Harbaugh
Edelman
(312) 240-2897
kelly.harbaugh@edelman.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-azek-company-hires-jeanine-gaffke-as-new-chief-marketing-officer-300587570.html
SOURCE The AZEK Company