Tony Alvarez takes CEO position to steer strategic growth as the Internet-of-Things drives digital retail and physical convergence.
SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Board of Altierre Corp., an industry leader in wireless Internet-of-Things (IoT) technology, announces the appointment of Tony Alvarez as chief executive officer, effective immediately.
Tony brings wide-ranging management and leadership expertise demonstrated at C-Level Executive and Board positions of numerous innovative companies, most notably in the semiconductor industry.
“We are thrilled to welcome Tony on board. Tony’s deep knowledge and leadership experience in operations, strategy, and technology will further accelerate Altierre’s growth in the digital retail and IoT markets,” said Alex Wong, Managing Director at D.E. Shaw & Co., an Altierre Board Member.
“I am incredibly excited to join the Altierre team. It is a tremendous opportunity. Altierre’s unique intelligent dynamic hopping technology infrastructure, seamless bi-directional messaging, and ultra low-energy system requirements have already helped retailers in the battle against Amazon. Altierre’s technology provides insights and capabilities that were previously available only to online retailers,” Alvarez said.
Alvarez’s most recent management experience includes serving as Chairman at SunEdison Semiconductor; Board Member at SunEdison and ChipMOS Technology; COO at Aptina and Advanced Analogic Technology, as well as CEO at Leadis Technology.
Altierre's patented technology, infrastructure and solution suite is already driving IoT adoption and digital connectivity in the United States and Europe. But the market opportunity to engage customers on a 1:1 basis, sharpen operational precision and enhance company performance is only just now unfolding.
Altierre’s wireless IoT system features ultra-low energy requirements, bi-directional messaging and solutions that provide brick-and-mortar retailers with the same agility as online merchants to continuously monitor, detect, flag and seize net profit opportunities across all areas of the business. Altierre’s patented system operates flawlessly in any store environment regardless of temperature extremes, line-of-sight barriers or concurrent channel frequency activity. Incorporated in 2003, Altierre is headquartered in San Jose, Calif. For more information, visit: http://www.altierre.com/
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005113/en/
The Blueshirt Group (for Altierre)
Jeff Fox, 415-828-8298
jeff@blueshirtgroup.com
Source: Altierre