DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Brown & Brown, Inc. (NYSE:BRO), one of the world’s largest independent providers of insurances services and solutions, has taken the next step in its national strategy dedicated to its employee benefits business. Paul Rogers, national benefits leader for global & national markets for Brown & Brown and President for Pacific Resources, has been named Senior Vice President of Brown & Brown, Inc. and Regional President of Employee Benefits. Brown & Brown has been a longstanding leader in delivering strategic and customized employee benefit programs to its customers. Under Rogers’ leadership, Brown & Brown anticipates more cohesive leadership and a relentless push in its strategy and commitment to the employee benefits marketplace.
“As we continue to expand our employee benefits team and the tailored solutions we provide to our customers, we are excited to launch this new employee benefits-focused business unit that provides a unified focus on servicing our customers in the small, middle and larger employer marketplaces,” said J. Powell Brown, president and CEO of Brown & Brown. “Under Paul Rogers’ leadership and direction, we intend to grow across all markets, leverage acquisitions, focus on data and technology, and continue to provide effective outcomes for our customers and their employees.”
Rogers has been in group benefits almost 30 years and has been at the forefront of developing new products that have shaped the industry.
“Paul brings decades of employee benefits expertise and valuable working relationships with the insurance carrier and TPA communities,” continued Brown. “He is a respected industry leader who consistently works on solutions to meet the current and emerging needs of customers; and when solutions aren’t available, Paul will lead a team to build them.”
As Regional President of Employee Benefits, Rogers is responsible for the overall strategy, growth and retention of customers for all employee benefits consulting and brokerage services at Brown & Brown.
“I’m excited to take on this new role,” said Rogers. “Our global employee benefits team has deep expertise and experience in providing customers with innovative solutions and technology to help meet their needs, and bringing everyone together in one unit inspires collaboration, harmonizes our strategy and reinforces our commitment to all markets in the employee benefits space. We are focused on the people, resources and technology that can help us assist our customers to develop ways to better serve their employees. I am humbled and blessed – and really excited – to step into this role.”
Before joining Pacific Resources, Rogers held various management and sales positions at UNUM and Liberty Mutual. A veteran of the financial services industry, Rogers worked for State Street Bank & Trust in accounting and management positions. He serves as a board advisor for Clearsurance and Cogito Corporation. Rogers holds a business degree from St. Francis Xavier University.
About Brown & Brown
Brown & Brown, Inc. (NYSE:BRO), through its subsidiaries, offers a broad range of insurance products and services. Additionally, certain Brown & Brown, Inc. subsidiaries offer a variety of risk management, third party administration, and other services. Serving business, public entity, individual, trade, and professional association customers nationwide, Brown & Brown, Inc. is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the world’s sixth largest insurance brokerage. For more information about Brown & Brown, Inc., visit www.bbinsurance.com .
J. Powell Brown
President & Chief Executive Officer
(386) 239-8828
Source:Brown & Brown, Inc.