NEW YORK, Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Hispanic Public Relations Association (HPRA) voted to elect Veronica Potes , NBCUniversal, president of the 2018 HPRA Executive Board. Potes has been a part of the organization for more than a decade. Rosemary Ravinal , Univision Communications Inc., will serve as president-elect for 2018.
As the only non-profit association dedicated to Hispanic marketing & communications professionals and those seeking insights into the Hispanic market, HPRA provides professional development tools and resources on the latest trends, issues and best practices in the field.
"After almost 34 years, HPRA continues to be a resource for Hispanic marketers & communicators across the nation," said Potes. "I am honored to be a part of a group of change agents who volunteer their time to spearhead programming initiatives across the country, helping to create connections and opportunities for our future leaders, HPRA members and the communities we serve."
In addition to Potes and Ravinal, the HPRA 2018 Executive Board includes:
Treasurer: Lourdes Rodriguez , Saban Community Clinic Secretary: Margarita Hernandez , Cision Social Media: Stephen Chavez , Chavez PR ; Mario Flores , Sportivo Membership: Melissa Smith , Ogilvy; Mayra Ramos-Miro , Red Heels PR Programming: Maria Amor , Havas FORMULATIN; Daisy Cabrera , PR & Social Media Consultant; Esther-Mireya Tejeda , Entercom Communications Past Presidents – at large: Yvonne Lorie , ReFresh PR; Antonio Hernandez, ServiceMaster Global Holdings; Andy Checo , Havas FORMULATIN Local Chapter Presidents: Stephen Chavez , Chavez PR; Yazmine Esparza , Edelman; Erika Sanchez , Braid Communications
In addition to HPRA's professional development and leadership opportunities, including presence at Hispanicize in April and the AHAA Annual Conference in June, the organization's local chapters in Los Angeles, New York & Miami offer in-market professional development initiatives and exclusive networking opportunities with top journalists and industry thought leaders.
HPRA's Annual BRAVO Awards recognize the most innovative, creative, and cultural campaigns across several categories including: technology, food & beverage, healthcare & nutrition, sports, automotive, digital, non-profit and integrated marketing as well as pioneers across the industry and agency landscape. For the fourth consecutive year, BRAVO will be held in New York City.
HPRA also raises scholarship funds for full-time Hispanic college students pursuing a career in PR, advertising or marketing. More than a quarter million dollars in scholarships have been awarded to date.
For more information on HPRA, local chapters, BRAVO Awards and/or the scholarship program, please visit www.hpra-usa.org .
About the Hispanic Public Relations Association (HPRA)
Founded in 1984, the Hispanic Public Relations Association (HPRA) is the foremost organization of Hispanic public relations practitioners in the U.S. HPRA is a resource for communications professionals and for individuals seeking Hispanic market expertise. It is dedicated to the recognition and advancement of Hispanics in public relations through year-round programs, professional development seminars and networking. HPRA hosts one of the most anticipated annual events and industry awards: the HPRA Bravo Awards, recognizing the most outstanding campaigns in the marketplace. The national organization aims to meet the professional needs of the growing number of Hispanic PR practitioners, independents and agencies throughout the U.S. HPRA National, its Chapters and those Chapters in formation are paving the way for the next phase of growth and evolution in the PR industry, especially in the Hispanic market space. For more information please visit www.hpra-usa.org .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hispanic-public-relations-association-announces-2018-executive-board-300591107.html
SOURCE Hispanic Public Relations Association (HPRA)