Performance Marketing Company Appoints Mar-Tech Veteran Matt Gilbert to Accelerate Growth
WILKES-BARRE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pepperjam , a full-service performance marketing company, today announced the appointment of digital marketing veteran Matt Gilbert as CEO .
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005318/en/
Newly appointed Pepperjam CEO Matt Gilbert | www.pepperjam.com (Photo: Business Wire)
Bringing over 20 years of experience in both the digital advertising and marketing cloud industries, Matt Gilbert has a track record of increasing company market share and profitability. Gilbert joins Pepperjam from Kinetic , a leading social marketing services and technology company. There, he pivoted the organization from a marketing agency to a data services company, developing and delivering its flagship audience data product to market. Prior to that, he co-founded 500friends , which sold to Merkle, where he served as SVP & GM of the Loyalty Services group. He has held numerous leadership positions across the digital marketing category throughout his career, including: Webloyalty.com , IAC/InterActive Corp. , Ask Jeeves , Inc and Excite@Home .
“Gilbert’s experience scaling data-driven digital marketing businesses, combined with a deep passion for teaching clients how to leverage data and technology to maximize marketing effectiveness, made him the ideal choice to lead Pepperjam into the future,” said Stephen Davis, Chairman of the Board for Pepperjam .
“Pepperjam has a long and respected history in the affiliate marketing solutions category, and is in my opinion, extraordinarily well positioned to take a definitive leadership position in the next generation of affiliate marketing,” Gilbert said. “In Pepperjam I see a talented and dedicated team, supportive investors, compelling technology and growing market where the largest incumbents have fallen behind. Those ingredients, when leveraged properly, are the foundation for achieving great outcomes. I’m excited to take on the leadership role at Pepperjam and capitalize on this opportunity to build a category-defining company.”
Gilbert will be based out of Pepperjam’s Philadelphia office.
About Pepperjam
Pepperjam provides expertise and technology that enables brands to live up to their true potential. With innovative technology platforms and services —and the leading affiliate network—Pepperjam connects data and analytics across all performance channels.
Headquartered in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Pepperjam is a global provider with offices in London, New York, Philadelphia, Santa Cruz, Tempe, and Toronto. Pepperjam is a portfolio company of Banneker Partners and the Permira Funds.
More at www.pepperjam.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116005318/en/
Hotwire Global for Pepperjam
Jennifer Sricharoenchaikit, 646-738-8960
pepperjamus@hotwireglobal.com
Source: Pepperjam