CLEVELAND, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- On January 15, 2018, Itocho announced the acquisition of Alta Forest Products, a large North American wood fencing manufacturer. The transaction will allow Itocho, a major player in the US fencing industry through its MASTER-HALCO unit, to further increase its presence in this market.
Freedonia Group analyst Nick Cunningham discusses the implications: "Prior to this acquisition, Itocho was already the leading supplier of fencing to the US through its substantial sales of a variety of metal fencing products. By adding Alta Forest Products' wood fencing operations to its portfolio, Itocho will further increase its market-leading position."
The acquisition will significantly expand Itocho's fencing operations, as the company will add Alta Forest Products' four manufacturing plants to its five existing production facilities. This should provide a considerable boost to Itocho's already substantial economies of scale.
Fencing, a study written by Cunningham, projects 5.0% annual growth in US fencing demand through 2020.
More information regarding the study can be found here:
https://www.freedoniagroup.com/industry-study/fencing-3453.htm
About The Freedonia Group – The Freedonia Group, a division of MarketResearch.com , is a leading international industrial research company publishing more than 100 studies annually. Since 1985 we have provided research to customers ranging in size from global conglomerates to one-person consulting firms. More than 90% of the industrial companies in the Fortune 500 use Freedonia Group research to help with their strategic planning. Each study includes product and market analyses and forecasts, in-depth discussions of important industry trends, and market share information. Studies can be purchased at www.freedoniagroup.com and are also available on www.marketresearch.com and www.profound.com .
Press Contact:
Corinne Gangloff
+1 440.684.9600
cgangloff@freedoniagroup.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/freedonia-analyst-weighs-in-on-itochos-acquisition-of-alta-forest-products-300587783.html
SOURCE The Freedonia Group