January 27, 2018 / 7:34 PM / in 13 minutes Wynn resigns as RNC finance chair after sexual misconduct allegations Steve Holland 3 Min Read 
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Las Vegas casino mogul Steve Wynn resigned as finance chairman of the Republican National Committee on Saturday, a day after the Wall Street Journal reported he routinely subjected women who worked for him to unwanted sexual advances. 
“Today I accepted Steve Wynn’s resignation as Republican National Committee finance chair,” RNC chair Ronna Romney McDaniel said in a statement. 
The billionaire has denied the accusations as “preposterous” and said they were instigated by his ex-wife to seek advantage in their divorce lawsuit. 
As recently as Friday night, Wynn associates were insisting he would fight the charges and remain at the RNC. 
Instead, he becomes the latest powerful man to pay a price for accusations of sexual misconduct in the United States. 
Wynn, 76, the founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Wynn Resorts Ltd, has been a prominent figure in the casino resort business and onetime rival of President Donald Trump. FILE PHOTO - Steve Wynn, Chairman and CEO of Wynn Resorts, speaks during the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California, U.S., May 3, 2017. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Picture 
After previously trying to stay nonpartisan, he threw his support behind Trump in the 2016 campaign and donated money to several Republican causes including the RNC. 
He was named finance chairman of the committee after Trump became president. 
The board of directors of Wynn Resorts said on Friday it had met to form a special committee consisting solely of independent directors to investigate the allegations contained in the Journal’s article. 
The special investigation panel will be chaired by Patricia Mulroy, a member of the board’s corporate governance and compliance committees and a former member of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the board said in a statement. 
The Wall Street Journal said former and current company staff members it interviewed had accused Wynn of creating a hostile work environment for women and of regularly pressuring employees to perform sex acts. 
“The idea that I ever assaulted any woman is preposterous,” Wynn said in a statement on Friday. “The instigation of these accusations is the continued work of my ex-wife, Elaine Wynn, with whom I am involved in a terrible and nasty lawsuit in which she is seeking a revised divorce settlement.” 
A spokeswoman for Elaine Wynn, 75, declined comment on Friday, but her Washington-based attorney, James Cole, told Reuters the notion that his client fomented the allegations in the Journal article “is just not true.” Additonal reporting by Yeganeh Torbati, Dustin Volz and Ginger Gibson; Writing by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Bill Trott and Chris Reese