HOUSTON, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- EP Energy Corporation (NYSE: EPE) announced it has added two key members to its board of directors filling the open independent director seats.
Mr. Robert "Bob" C. Reeves was elected to EP Energy's board of directors as an independent director in December 2017. Mr. Reeves was Athlon Energy's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer from its formation in 2010 until its sale to Encana Corporation in 2014, and helped to build the company into a premier independent oil and gas firm. Prior to that time, he was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Encore Acquisition Company and Encore Energy Partners. Mr. Reeves has served on the board of directors for privately held Incline Niobrara Partners LP since its formation in 2015. Mr. Reeves is a graduate of the University of Kansas with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting. He is a member of the company's Audit Committee and Governance & Nominating Committee.
Mr. J. Barton "Bart" Kalsu was elected to EP Energy's board of directors as an independent director, effective immediately. Mr. Kalsu brings successful financial leadership to the board with more than 25 years of experience in global finance and accounting roles. He is currently Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for SolarWinds, Inc. He joined SolarWinds, Inc. in 2007 as Chief Accountant and Vice President, Finance. Mr. Kalsu previously served on the board of directors of Athlon Energy prior to its acquisition by Encana Corporation in 2014. Mr. Kalsu is a graduate of Oklahoma State University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting. He will serve as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a member of the Compensation Committee.
"Everyone on the board is pleased with the additional insight and energy both Bob and Bart bring to the company," said Alan Crain, Chairman of EP Energy Corporation. "Bob has had outstanding success building and optimizing oil and gas companies. His judgement and expertise will be invaluable as we continue improving EP Energy. Bart's impressive career spans accounting, finance, corporate controls, operations and other pertinent areas. His acumen and candor will further strengthen and energize our company. The board is confident that EP Energy will greatly benefit from the knowledge and perspectives of these two exceptional individuals."
About EP Energy
The EP Energy team is driven to deliver superior returns for our investors by developing the oil and natural gas that feeds America's growing energy needs. The company focuses on enhancing the value of its high quality asset portfolio, increasing capital efficiency, maintaining financial flexibility, and pursuing accretive acquisitions and divestitures. EP Energy is working to set the standard for efficient development of hydrocarbons in the U.S. Learn more at epenergy.com .
Contact
Investor and Media Relations
Bill Baerg
713-997-2906
bill.baerg@epenergy.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bob-reeves-and-bart-kalsu-join-ep-energy-corporations-board-of-directors-300589714.html
SOURCE EP Energy Corporation