NEW YORK, January 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on SWCH, UIS, WIT, and XRX which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . In today's pre-market research, WallStEquities.com presents for assessment Switch Inc. (NYSE: SWCH), Unisys Corp. (NYSE: UIS), Wipro Ltd (NYSE: WIT), and Xerox Corp. (NYSE: XRX). Information Technology Services companies provide services such as software support, computer systems design, and data processing facilities management. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below. http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
Switch
Las Vegas, Nevada headquartered Switch Inc.'s stock finished Wednesday's session 0.30% higher at $16.51 with a total trading volume of 614,661 shares. The stock is trading 5.88% below their 50-day moving average. Shares of the Company, which through its subsidiary, Switch, Ltd., provides colocation space and related services to technology and digital media companies, cloud and managed service providers, financial institutions, government agencies, and telecommunications providers that conduct critical business on the Internet, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 37.33.
On December 28 th , 2017, Switch announced that Switch, Ltd., along with certain wholly owned subsidiaries, has successfully repriced its credit facility and amended the applicable credit agreement. The repricing has (i) reduced the interest rate margins on its existing $600 million term loan facility by removing the pricing grid and providing for a single reduced interest rate margin, which is 0.50% lower than the previous applicable rate, and (ii) modified the pricing grid on its revolving credit facility to reduce interest rate margins by 0.50% at each grid level. Get the full research report on SWCH for free by clicking below at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=SWCH
Unisys
On Wednesday, shares in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania-based Unisys Corp. recorded a trading volume of 149,188 shares. The stock ended the session 1.68% lower at $8.80. The Company's shares have advanced 7.32% in the last month. The stock is trading 8.41% above its 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Unisys, which provides information technology services worldwide, have an RSI of 58.47.
On January 15 th , 2018, Unisys announced that it will release Q4 and full-year 2017 financial results on February 08 th , 2018, after the close of trading on the NYSE. Following the release, the Company will host a conference call from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. ET to discuss the results. A live, listen-only webcast of the conference call will be available on the Company's investor website. Download our actionable research report on UIS at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=UIS
Wipro
Bengaluru, India headquartered Wipro Ltd's shares closed the day 1.66% higher at $5.51. The stock recorded a trading volume of 1.94 million shares, which was higher than its three months average volume of 1.46 million shares. The Company's shares have gained 1.47% over the previous three months and 12.79% over the past year. The stock is trading 1.66% and 1.12% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Wipro, which operates as an information technology, consulting, and business process services company worldwide, have an RSI of 47.20.
On January 24 th , 2018, Wipro announced that it has been recognized as a 'Leader' by Everest Group in its report, "Cloud Enablement Services - Market Trends and Service PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2018: Containers and SDI Gathering Steam." The study analyzed the capabilities of 21 leading cloud enablement service providers and mapped them on Everest Group's PEAK Matrix. Register for your free report coverage on WIT at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=WIT
Xerox
Shares in Norwalk, Connecticut headquartered Xerox Corp. finished 0.68% lower at $32.36. The stock recorded a trading volume of 1.66 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 8.92% in the last month and 16.57% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 8.74% and 7.37%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Xerox, which provides document management solutions worldwide, have an RSI of 66.55. Get the free research report on XRX at: http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=XRX
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit
https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you ' re a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
SOURCE Wall St. Equities