Glenn Reynolds named Head of Government and Industry Affairs in Washington, D.C. by telecom services leader
BRIDGEWATER, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- iconectiv, an authoritative partner of the global communications industry connecting more than two billion people every day, has named telecommunications policy expert Glenn Reynolds as its Head of Government and Industry Affairs.
With more than 20 years of experience in all areas of telecommunications regulation and policy, Reynolds brings a proven track record of successful representation in front of state and federal agencies, along with industry and trade associations. Reynolds will focus on providing guidance and insights to government and industry stakeholders in a changing regulatory environment.
“Very few individuals can bring the expertise and reputation that Glenn does to complex telecommunications policies and regulations,” said Tara O’Neill Diaz, General Counsel, iconectiv. “His strong professional relationships with government agencies and telecommunications associations is a testament to his deep industry knowledge and leadership skills.”
Prior to iconectiv, Reynolds served as Chief of Staff for the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), where he was responsible for coordinating policy development across a broad spectrum of issues, including those involving internet, wireline and wireless networks. Previously, he served in senior management positions at BellSouth Corporation, the USTelecom Association and was Deputy Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau of the FCC, where he provided strategic counsel with a comprehensive understanding of how policy decisions are made and led diverse teams to achieve organizational goals.
“Telecommunications regulations and policies are key drivers in the life of the nation, affecting consumers and businesses as well as economic growth and innovation,” Reynolds said. “As an authoritative, neutral third-party, it’s critical that iconectiv stays engaged in the ever-evolving regulatory environment as the industry seeks to reduce robocalls and cybersecurity threats, modernize the nation’s network infrastructure, and ensure the connectivity and speed that consumers demand.”
iconectiv maintains active engagement with numerous government agencies, industry trade associations, standards bodies and academic institutions to define the technical solutions that support regulation. This year, iconectiv will become the Local Number Portability Administrator (LNPA) for all regions of the Number Portability Administration Center (NPAC). The LNPA is tasked with ensuring consumers and businesses can easily port their phone numbers between service providers.
[Suggested Tweet] @iconectiv hires #telecom policy expert Glenn Reynolds as Head of Government & Industry Affairs in D.C.
About iconectiv
At iconectiv, we envision a world without boundaries, where the ability to access and exchange information is simple, secure and seamless. As the authoritative partner of the communications industry for more than 30 years, our market-leading solutions enable the interconnection of networks, devices, and applications for more than two billion people every day. Working closely with private, government and non-governmental organizations, iconectiv has intimate knowledge of the intricacies and complexities of creating, operating and securing the telecommunications infrastructure for service providers, governments and enterprises. iconectiv provides network and operations management, numbering, registry, messaging and fraud and identity solutions to more than 1,200 customers globally. A US-based company, Telcordia Technologies, does business as iconectiv. For more information, visit www.iconectiv.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123005535/en/
iconectiv
Sharon Oddy
+1-732-699-5130/908-809-2268
soddy@iconectiv.com
or
Global Results Communications
Mike Kilroy/Valerie Christopherson
+1-949-689-9550
iconectiv@globalresultspr.com
Source: iconectiv