ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Interstate Hotels & Resorts ("Interstate" or the "Company") – the leading U.S.-based global hotel management company – announces it has closed on the acquisition of the management agreements of 82 premium-branded, select- and full-service hotels, plus one restaurant, from White Lodging effective January 24, 2018.
"A transaction of this nature aligns well with our growth strategy and we're excited with the direction this new expansion is taking us," said Michael Deitemeyer, Interstate's president & CEO. "We've gained high quality hotels under long-term management agreements, and increased our depth of talent with valued and experienced leadership teams."
Historically, today marks the largest single-day transition for Interstate Hotels & Resorts. Interstate is thrilled to welcome 2,500 new associates, 78 select-service and 4 full service properties under iconic lodging brands including Marriott, Hyatt and Hilton into its portfolio.
A global leader in third-party hotel management, Interstate Hotels & Resorts' depth of experience across all lodging segments and asset classes drives results in each of its managed hotels worldwide. For more information on Interstate Hotels & Resorts, visit www.InterstateHotels.com .
About Interstate Hotels & Resorts
Interstate Hotels & Resorts is the leading U.S.-based global hotel management company, operating branded full- and select-service hotels, resorts, convention centers, and independent hotels. Currently, Interstate's global portfolio represents 540 properties in 12 countries inclusive of committed pipeline of signed hotels under construction or development around the world. The Company's experienced operators, industry leading platforms, and extensive management capabilities produce exceptional guest experiences and optimal returns for hotel owners and investors. For more information, please visit www.interstatehotels.com , or follow Interstate on Facebook and LinkedIn .
For More Media Information:
Kerri Crannis/ Morgan King
The Zimmerman Agency • 850.668.2222
kcrannis@zimmerman.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/interstate-hotels--resorts-closes-deal-to-acquire-83-property-management-agreements-300587768.html
SOURCE Interstate Hotels & Resorts