WASHINGTON, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- It is with great pleasure that Model B announces Mark Minicucci will join our growing team of digital professionals as Creative Technologist & Partner – effective January 15, 2018.
In his new role, Mark will be responsible for overseeing the growth of creative and technical solutions that help Model B's clients maximize the potential of their digital properties. Pulling from years of experience in digital development, client management, and marketing production, Mark will also be responsible for leading our day-to-day digital operations and ensuring a tight delivery process, consistent client satisfaction, and routinely superior work product.
"We have been working with Mark for almost a year now and are extremely excited to have him officially joining us to lead our digital development team," said Abtin Buergari, Model B Co-Founder & Partner. "Mark is well-known for his sophisticated web builds and we look forward to working with him to create a new form of website production – one that transforms our clients' websites into active assets with the power to drive significant value to their businesses."
Prior to joining Model B, Mark was a Co-Founder and Executive Producer at D*MNGOOD – a Washington, D.C. based creative agency specializing in high-end and conceptual design, motion, and narrative campaigns. Throughout his career, Mark has demonstrated an ability to facilitate the successful marriage of exceptional design and functional development to ensure that his clients are able to show off digital works that uniquely reflect their brand and goals.
About Model B: Model B is the evolution of the traditional digital agency – engineering growth and mechanizing influence for our clients through a novel, metrics-based process that combines the complementary knowledge of experienced digital marketers, serial entrepreneurs, data engineers, and brand gurus.
We represent a range of clients, from established enterprises seeking increased market influence to capitalized early-stage ventures seeking rapid revenue generation. To learn more, visit our website or just reach out to us.
Press Contact:
Ben Huizinga, Manager
(202) 630-5734
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mark-minicucci-joins-model-b-as-creative-technologist--partner-300583360.html
SOURCE Model B