COLUMBUS, Ohio, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Nationwide Chief Information Officer Michael Keller has announced that he will retire from his role later this year. Keller has been the CIO for Nationwide since 2001, transforming the company's IT organization with an insightful leadership style focusing on culture and teamwork.
"Given the strategic importance of information technology to Nationwide's success, we have initiated a search that will include both internal and external candidates for Mike's replacement," said Nationwide Chief Executive Officer Steve Rasmussen.
The company anticipates it will name Keller's successor sometime in the second half of 2018. Keller will stay until the transition to his successor is complete.
"Mike's deep knowledge of the industry and his ability to strategically plan for the long-term have helped to move Nationwide forward and to further build our reputation as a customer-focused company," Rasmussen added. "He has been an incredible business partner, a mentor to many, and an influencer, not only within our company but in the technology and business communities."
Keller has served on the Board of Directors for Columbus 2020, a public-private partnership designed to leverage research companies, academic institutions and diverse industries to position Central Ohio as one of the nation's leaders in economic development. He is a member of the Board for the Columbus Collaboratory, a rapid innovation and insights partnership that focuses on delivering business value through advanced analytics and cybersecurity solutions. He is also a member of the IBM Board of Advisors and McKinsey's Global Insurance COO Roundtable.
Prior to joining Nationwide, he served as Chief Technology Officer at JPMorgan Chase (formerly Bank One), and several executive positions at IBM.
About Nationwide
Nationwide, a Fortune 100 company based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest and strongest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the U.S. and is rated A+ by both A.M. Best and Standard & Poor's. The company provides a full range of insurance and financial services, including auto, commercial, homeowners, farm and life insurance; public and private sector retirement plans, annuities and mutual funds; banking and mortgages; excess & surplus, specialty and surety; pet, motorcycle and boat insurance. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com .
Nationwide, Nationwide is on your side, Join the Nation and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company.
Contact:
Joe Case
(614) 249-6349
joe.case@nationwide.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nationwide-cio-michael-keller-announces-retirement-300584703.html
SOURCE Nationwide