CHICAGO, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cedar Electronics, holding company for leading automotive and consumer electronics brands Cobra Electronics , Escort and Snooper , today named Manuel Jaime as Chief Technology Officer effective immediately. Jaime most recently served as Co-Founder and CEO of ClipCast® Technologies.
Manuel is a technology executive with over 15 years of experience in mobile, connectivity, software, and cloud technologies. An accomplished technology innovator & entrepreneur, Manuel has over 20 patents in connected devices, wireless systems, video platforms, and low-power RF. He has developed and commercialized leading edge connected devices, services, and applications at both established and start-up companies including Qualcomm, CardioNet, and NetworkCar.
Manuel is a graduate of the Leaders for Global Operations (LGO) Program at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he received an MBA and a MS in Mechanical Engineering. He also holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering and a MS in Systems Engineering from MIT.
"As Cedar's extensive portfolio of driver awareness and information technologies continues to evolve, Manuel will apply his technical, business and operational experience to enhance the connectivity, embedded hardware, software, and cloud capabilities of our technology portfolio," said Chris Cowger, President and CEO, Cedar Electronics. "His long-range technology strategy, product innovation and technology partnerships will drive the execution of Cedar's strategic goals & technology transformation."
"I'm looking forward to bringing elements of my technology development expertise, particularly in connected devices, mobile and cloud to Cedar," said Manuel. "I'm excited for the tech transformation of Cedar as a critical element of our strategy."
Manuel will be based in San Diego, giving Cedar a new presence on the West Coast that will enable closer proximity to and relationships with key technology partners, as well as the world's leading software, mobile and connectivity talent.
About Cedar Electronics
Cedar Electronics Corporation, a leading global supplier of mobile and consumer products, possesses a portfolio of industry leading electronics brands including Cobra Electronics, ESCORT and Snooper. With locations in North America, Europe and Asia, Cedar is the largest designer & marketer of radar detection systems at every price point in every sales channel and the industry leader in Citizens Band radios. Cedar continues to aggressively grow its portfolio with an ever-expanding family of products that include dash cams, power inverters, portable jump starters, driver alert and information applications and more.
Media Contacts:
Chris Kooistra
Cedar Electronics
(773) 972-0691
ckooistra@cedarelectronics.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cedar-electronics-names-manuel-jaime-as-chief-technology-officer-300578183.html
SOURCE Cedar Electronics