Positioning for today’s customer mission needs and the emergent warfighting domains of tomorrow
HERNDON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Strengthening its focus on emerging warfighting domains, Peraton has announced the establishment of two new sectors:
Space, Intelligence and Cyber Defense and Electronic Warfare
Additionally, the company has two strategic business units:
Homeland Security Communications
The Space, Intelligence and Cyber sector delivers advanced solutions for space, intelligence and cyber/SIGINT missions, focusing on space protection and resiliency, intelligence processing, secure communications, cyber operations, and network platform protection and exploitation across a broad range of national security, civil space, and intelligence community customers. Peraton’s current NASA programs will be aligned under the sector. As announced by the company on January 4, 2018, L. Roger Mason will lead this sector as president.
The Defense and Electronic Warfare sector will serve as the research and development (R&D) arm of Peraton, developing and delivering mission-tailored solutions to Defense customers, from basic R&D through operational programs. This sector will consolidate all current and future internal and customer R&D programs in support of the Department of Defense laboratories, as well as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency (IARPA).
Gus Bontzos has been appointed president of the sector, effective immediately. Bontzos will have executive responsibility for all aspects of the sector’s strategy, growth and program execution. Additionally, he will ensure that Peraton’s strategic technology investment portfolio is aligned to customers’ future mission needs.
Most recently Bontzos served as vice president and general manager of Peraton’s former Advanced Solutions organization, where he led efforts focused on mission support to intelligence and Department of Defense customers. Earlier in his career, he served in leadership roles at Harris Corporation, Exelis and ITT.
He earned a bachelor’s and master’s degree in electrical engineering from Drexel University and a bachelor’s in mathematics from Saint Vincent College.
Peraton’s Homeland Security business unit provides technology integration and mission support services primarily to the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State. Peraton’s current programs in support of the Department of Veterans Affairs and Defense Health are aligned under this business unit. The business unit will ensure continued strategic and profitable growth within key homeland security focus areas, including intelligence, surveillance, and Reconnaissance, border and aviation security, and logistics.
The Communications business unit will continue to provide mission-critical, advanced communications services to Peraton’s intelligence, defense, civil and commercial customers. This organization will be responsible for leading the company’s continued growth in the government satellite and terrestrial communications markets.
More information about the leaders for these two strategic business units will be announced at a later date.
“We are deliberately building a company that is positioned to meet our customers’ mission needs now and is prepared to aggressively shape and pursue opportunities across the emerging warfighting domains of tomorrow,” said Stu Shea, Peraton CEO. “Today’s announcement of Peraton’s new sectors, business units and leaders underscores our focus on the future direction of this company. Under Peraton’s new leadership, our businesses are now in a position to compete in a truly differentiated manner and on par with any company in our marketspace.”
About Peraton
Peraton provides innovative, reliable solutions to the nation’s most sensitive and mission-critical programs and systems. Peraton has significant experience providing highly differentiated space, intelligence, cyber/SIGINT, defense, homeland security, electronic warfare and secure communications solutions, and has become a trusted partner on missions that are critical to the security priorities of the United States. Capabilities include complex software and technology services and solutions, as well as end-to-end mission operations capabilities, including software systems development, offensive and defense cyber operations, modeling & simulation, mission management, and Quick Reaction Capabilities (QRC) / Research & Development. The company is headquartered in Herndon, VA, with approximately 3,500 employees across the U.S. and Canada.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180111005353/en/
Peraton
Jaime Orlando, 703-668-6443
jorlan01@peraton.com
Source: Peraton