PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 29, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Umpqua Holdings Corporation today announced that former CEO and board chair Ray Davis has been recognized with a Chairman Emeritus designation by its board of directors. The Chairman Emeritus role is an honorary title in recognition of Davis’ leadership and accomplishments over more than two decades of service to the bank.
“Umpqua Bank would not be what it is today without Ray’s tireless, visionary leadership for so many years,” said Cort O’Haver, Umpqua Bank CEO. “His designation as Chairman Emeritus is well deserved and reflects his outstanding contributions to our bank, our customers and the communities we serve.”
Davis served as Umpqua Bank CEO for 23 years before retiring in January 2017. He continued in his role as executive chair of Umpqua Holdings Corporation’s board of directors until December 31. 2017. Under Davis’ leadership, Umpqua grew from a small community bank serving primarily Southern Oregon to become the largest bank headquartered in the Pacific Northwest and a leading innovator among financial institutions.
Today, Umpqua Bank has nearly $25 billion in assets and 4,200 associates across its five-state footprint.
About Umpqua Holdings Corporation
Umpqua Holdings Corporation is the parent company of Umpqua Bank, an Oregon-based community bank recognized for its entrepreneurial approach, innovative customer experience, and distinctive banking solutions. Umpqua Bank has locations across Oregon, Washington, California, Idaho and Nevada. Umpqua Holdings also owns a retail brokerage subsidiary, Umpqua Investments, Inc., which has locations in Umpqua Bank stores and in dedicated offices in Oregon, and Pivotus Ventures, an innovation studio headquartered in Silicon Valley focused on creating key technologies and business models that transform finance and commerce. Umpqua Holdings Corporation is headquartered in Portland, Oregon. For more information, visit umpquabank.com .
Contact: Kurt Heath (503) 219-6124 KurtHeath@umpquabank.com
Source:Umpqua Holdings Corporation