HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Geospace Technologies (NASDAQ: GEOS) today announced that it will release first quarter 2018 financial results on Tuesday, February 6, 2017 after the market closes. In conjunction with the release, Geospace has scheduled a conference call for Wednesday, February 7, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central).
What: Geospace Technologies First Quarter 2018 Conference Call When: Wednesday, February 7, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central) How: Live via phone – U.S. participants can dial toll free (866) 518-6930. International participants can dial (203) 518-9797. Please reference the Geospace Technologies conference ID: GEOSQ118 prior to the start of the conference call.
For those who cannot listen to the live call, a replay will be available for approximately 60 days and may be accessed through the Investor Relations tab of our website: www.geospace.com .
Geospace Technologies Corporation designs and manufactures instruments and equipment used by the oil and gas industry to acquire seismic data in order to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. The company also designs and manufactures non-seismic products, including industrial products, offshore cables and imaging equipment.
This press release includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact included herein including statements regarding potential future products and markets, our potential future revenues, future financial position, business strategy, future expectations and other plans and objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. We believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable. However, they are based on certain assumptions about our industry and our business that may in the future prove to be inaccurate. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include the level of seismic exploration worldwide, which is influenced primarily by prevailing prices for oil and gas, the extent to which our new products are accepted in the market, the availability of competitive products that may be more technologically advanced or otherwise preferable to our products, tensions in the Middle East and other factors disclosed under the heading “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, all written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005888/en/
Geospace Technologies
Rick Wheeler, 713-986-4444
President & Chief Executive Officer
Source: Geospace Technologies