RESTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Jackson Lewis P.C ., one of the country’s preeminent workplace law firms, is pleased to announce Thomas P. Murphy has joined the firm’s Washington, D.C. Region office as a Principal. Mr. Murphy joins Jackson Lewis from Hunton & Williams where he was a partner.
“Tom has a proven track record of successfully representing clients throughout various industries in a wide-range of employment-related disputes,” said Bradford T. Hammock , Washington, D.C. Region Office Managing Principal. “We are excited to welcome Tom to the firm. He is well-regarded in the Washington, D.C. Region as well as the Virginia legal community, and will help our team expand upon our current capabilities.”
With almost 40 years of experience in labor and employment advice and litigation, Mr. Murphy covers a diverse range of labor and employment law matters, including discrimination and harassment, wage and hour, and labor-management relations. Throughout his career, he has tried more than 65 jury trials as a federal prosecutor and in private practice. He represents national and global clients in the retail, manufacturing, financial services, health care and hospitality industries.
“I am thrilled to join a law firm that has such a vast network of talented attorneys and focuses its approach on providing clients with cutting-edge service solutions,” said Mr. Murphy. “I look forward to working alongside my colleagues to further enhance the firm’s abilities both regionally and nationally.”
Mr. Murphy was previously an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia where he served in the Chronic Offender Unit. He was the recipient of the US Department of Justice’s Special Achievement Award for his successful prosecution of a number of cases of notoriety.
Mr. Murphy earned his B.A. from Clarkson University and his J.D. from Vermont Law School. He also served as a Lieutenant in the US Navy.
Jackson Lewis’ Washington, D.C. Region office can be reached at (703) 483-8300.
About Jackson Lewis
Jackson Lewis P.C. is a law firm with more than 800 attorneys in major cities nationwide serving clients across a wide range of practices and industries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005896/en/
Jackson Lewis P.C.
Lara Hamm, 267-319-7803
lara.hamm@jacksonlewis.com
Source: Jackson Lewis P.C.