Expands Coverage of Global Industrials Sector
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Perella Weinberg Partners (“PWP”) announced today that it has opened an office in Chicago, Illinois, the Firm’s 11th office globally. The office is led by Brennan Smith, who joined the Firm as a Partner in the Advisory business. Mr. Smith will be responsible for building a team of advisory professionals and expanding the Firm’s client coverage in Chicago and the Midwest. In addition, he will work closely with the Firm’s global Industrials Team, including Partners Dietrich Becker (London), Timo Bauschke (London), Chris Mead (Los Angeles), and Jonathan Prather (New York), to expand sector coverage.
Mr. Smith is a veteran banker with more than 20 years of investment banking experience. He joins PWP from Citi, where he was most recently a Managing Director in the Global Industrials Group, Co-Head of the Chicago Office, and Head of Midwest Industrials.
Peter Weinberg, Founding Partner and Co-Head of Advisory at Perella Weinberg Partners, said, “PWP has always maintained a strong connection to Chicago, and we are excited to establish an on-the-ground presence in the region under Brennan’s leadership. Brennan is an accomplished banker with deep relationships. Marrying his expertise and vast network with the broader capabilities and resources of the Firm will enable us to provide comprehensive strategic advice to our clients in the Chicago and Midwest market.”
Mr. Smith commented, “I am excited to join PWP, a firm with a distinguished reputation in the region. I look forward to building a team focused on providing clients trusted, independent advice that addresses their strategic needs.”
Biography of Brennan Smith
Prior to joining Perella Weinberg Partners, Mr. Smith was a Managing Director in the Global Industrials Group and Head of Midwest Industrials at Citi. In addition, he served as Co-Head of Citi’s Chicago Corporate and Investment Banking office. He joined Salomon Brothers, a predecessor to Citi, in 1995. Earlier in his career, he also worked for Continental Bank and Bank of America.
Mr. Smith holds a B.B.A in Finance from the University of Notre Dame and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business.
About Perella Weinberg Partners
Perella Weinberg Partners is a leading independent, client-focused financial services firm providing advisory, asset management and energy securities research, underwriting and trading services to a broad, global client base, including corporations, institutions and governments. Together with its affiliates, the Asset Management business has capital commitments and managed assets of approximately $13.4 billion. With more than 650 employees, Perella Weinberg Partners maintains offices in New York, Houston, London, Abu Dhabi, Austin, Calgary, Chicago, Denver, Dubai, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. For more information on Perella Weinberg Partners, please visit http://www.pwpartners.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006245/en/
Media:
Perella Weinberg Partners
Kara Findlay, 212-287-3197
or
Sard Verbinnen & Co
Denise DesChenes/Margaret Popper, 212-687-8080
Source: Perella Weinberg Partners