Lim Brings 16 Years of Underwriting Experience to New Role Managing AXIS’ Insurance Business in Singapore
PEMBROKE, Bermuda & SINGAPORE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AXIS Insurance, a business segment of AXIS Capital Holdings Limited (NYSE:AXS), announced today the promotion of Nicole Lim to Deputy Chief Underwriting Officer, Singapore, with immediate effect. Ms. Lim will oversee AXIS’ insurance business in Singapore, along with managing the office’s day-to-day operations.
Ms. Lim was previously Vice President, Underwriting, for AXIS’ Singapore office. She will continue to report to Rory MacGregor, the former Executive Vice President and Singapore underwriting manager for AXIS Insurance, who was promoted to Head of Regional Hubs and International Distribution last October. Ms. Lim assumes the Deputy CUO, Singapore, role for AXIS’ insurance business ahead of Mr. MacGregor’s return to the Company’s London office this summer.
“Nicole has built a strong reputation within the Singapore market and is a seasoned underwriter with deep expertise across all energy specialty classes,” said Mr. MacGregor. “She has helped foster collaboration between our Singapore team and with our other offices, further enhancing the service that we provide to our clients. At AXIS, we place a priority on creating an environment where great talent can thrive, and we are pleased to see Nicole promoted to manage our insurance business in Singapore.”
Ms. Lim joined AXIS in 2013. A 16-year insurance professional, she previously held various underwriting roles within Allianz, Liberty and Aon Risk Services.
About AXIS Capital
AXIS Capital is a Bermuda-based global provider of specialty lines insurance and treaty reinsurance with shareholders' equity at September 30, 2017, of $5.5 billion and locations in Bermuda, the United States, Europe, Singapore, Middle East, Canada, and Latin America. Its operating subsidiaries have been assigned a rating of "A+" ("Strong") by Standard & Poor's and "A+" ("Superior") by A.M. Best. For more information about AXIS Capital, visit our website at www.axiscapital.com . Follow AXIS Capital on LinkedIn and Twitter .
About AXIS Insurance
AXIS Insurance — a business segment of AXIS Capital Holdings Limited (NYSE:AXS) — provides Property & Casualty, Professional Lines, Terrorism, Marine, Energy, Aviation, Credit & Political Risk, Environmental, Accident & Health coverages and other customized insurance solutions. Our products are offered through our distribution partners, which include wholesale brokers, retail brokers and designated managing general agents/underwriters (“MGAs”/”MGUs”) in the U.S. and abroad. Coverages are backed by the financial strength and security of the AXIS Insurance Companies, rated “A+” (Strong) by Standard & Poor’s and “A+” (Superior) XV by A.M. Best. For more information, visit our website at http://www.axiscapital.com/en-us/insurance .
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108005560/en/
Investors
AXIS Capital Holdings Limited
Linda Ventresca, 441-405-2727
investorrelations@axiscapital.com
or
Media
AXIS Capital Holdings Limited
Keith Trivitt, 212-715-3557
keith.trivitt@axiscapital.com
Source: AXIS Insurance