NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on BUFF, KHC, PPC, and SAFM which can be accessed for free by signing up to www.wallstequities.com/registration . WallStEquities.com has issued research reports on Blue Buffalo Pet Products Inc. (NASDAQ: BUFF), The Kraft Heinz Co. (NASDAQ: KHC), Pilgrim's Pride Corp. (NASDAQ: PPC), and Sanderson Farms Inc. (NASDAQ: SAFM). These stocks belong to the Major Diversified Food sector, which encompasses companies that prepare agricultural products for consumer consumption, and often have many different lines of brands that they market and sell. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
www.wallstequities.com/registration
Blue Buffalo Pet Products
Wilton, Connecticut headquartered Blue Buffalo Pet Products Inc.'s shares declined 1.04%, closing Tuesday's trading session at $33.21. The stock recorded a trading volume of 522,277 shares. The Company's shares have advanced 4.73% in the last month, 17.43% over the previous three months, and 34.34% over the past year. The stock is trading 6.25% above its 50-day moving average and 25.46% above its 200-day moving average. Additionally, shares of the Company, which through its subsidiary, Blue Buffalo Company, Ltd., operates as a pet food company in the US, Canada, Japan, and Mexico, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 57.59.
On January 11 th , 2018, Blue Buffalo Pet Products announced that it will release its financial results for Q4 2017 after the market closes on February 27 th , 2018. The Company has scheduled a conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET that same day, during which William "Billy" Bishop, CEO, and Mike Nathenson, CFO, will discuss the Company's results and answer questions from the investment community.
On January 16 th , 2018, research firm Citigroup reiterated its 'Buy' rating on the Company's stock with an increase of the target price from $33 a share to $39 a share. Get the full research report on BUFF for free by clicking below at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=BUFF
Kraft Heinz
On Tuesday, shares in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based The Kraft Heinz Co. recorded a trading volume of 2.72 million shares. The stock rose slightly by 0.12%, ending the day at $80.27. The Company's shares have advanced 3.73% in the past month and 4.64% in the previous three months. The stock is trading above its 50-day moving average by 1.50%. Furthermore, shares of Kraft Heinz, which manufactures and sells various food products to consumers, and foodservice and institutional customers in North America, Europe, the Asia/Pacific, Latin America, the Russian Federation, India, Middle-East, and Africa, have an RSI of 60.01.
On January 19 th , 2018, research firm Jefferies initiated a 'Buy' rating on the Company's stock, with a target price of $95 per share.
On January 22 nd , 2018, Kraft Heinz announced that it will release its Q4 and full-year 2017 financial results on February 16 th , 2018, before the market opens. The Company will host a conference call at 8:00 a.m. EST that same day to review and discuss the results, followed by a question-and-answer session with analysts. The earnings release and live audio webcast of the earnings conference call can be accessed under the investor page of the Company's website. KHC's complimentary research coverage is a few simple steps away at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=KHC
Pilgrim's Pride
Greeley, Colorado headquartered Pilgrim's Pride Corp.'s stock finished the day 0.80% lower at $30.97 with a total trading volume of 811,095 shares. The Company's shares have advanced surged 65.70% over the past year. The stock is trading above its 200-day moving average by 11.32%. Additionally, shares of Pilgrim's Pride, which engages in the production, processing, marketing, and distribution of fresh, frozen, and value-added chicken products to retailers, distributors, and foodservice operators in the US, Mexico, and Puerto Rico, have an RSI of 47.98. Register for your free research report on PPC at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=PPC
Sanderson Farms
Shares in Laurel, Mississippi headquartered Sanderson Farms Inc. ended yesterday's session 0.12% lower at $136.12. The stock recorded a trading volume of 421,739 shares. The Company's shares have surged 50.63% over the past year. The stock is trading 0.08% below its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Sanderson Farms, which produces, processes, markets, and distributes fresh, frozen, and prepared chicken products in the US, have an RSI of 41.38.
On January 18 th , 2018, Sanderson Farms announced that its Board of Directors has declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.32 per share, payable on February 13 th , 2018. to stockholders of record on January 30 th , 2018. Wall St. Equities' downloadable research report on SAFM available at: www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=SAFM
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/this-mornings-technical-outlook-on-food-stocks----blue-buffalo-pet-products-kraft-heinz-pilgrims-pride-and-sanderson-farms-300587349.html
SOURCE Wall St. Equities