WESTLAKE VILLAGE, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- BKF Capital Group, Inc. (OTC PINK:BKFG), a company that has historically operated in the investment advisory and asset management business, announced today that David S. Burnett has joined the company as its Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Burnett will be responsible for overseeing all financial and administrative functions that will allow BKF Capital Group to grow and invest in new and existing investment portfolio opportunities.
“We are pleased to have David join the BKF Capital Group executive team. His strong leadership skills, combined with a solid financial background bring new attention to a critical function; one that allows us to work as a strategic team to expand BKF’s investment platform,” said Steven N. Bronson, Chairman and CEO of BKF Capital Group, Inc.
In addition to being named Chief Financial Officer at BKF Capital Group, Mr. Burnett was also appointed Chief Financial Officer of Interlink Electronics, Inc. (NASDAQ:LINK). BKF Capital Group owns 11.93% of Interlink. Mr. Burnett will divide his time between the entities.
Mr. Burnett brings over 27 years of diverse financial experience to BKF Capital Group, where he will serve our primary stakeholders of investors, portfolio businesses and their management teams. Mr. Burnett was Chief Financial Officer of Interlink during 2016 and 2017, and has continued to serve in a consulting capacity since leaving in April 2017. During the interim period, Mr. Burnett was Chief Financial Officer of privately-held Palmetto Clean Technology, Inc. Prior to joining Interlink the first time, Mr. Burnett served in various management positions with EnPro Industries, Inc., most recently Vice President and Treasurer. Before EnPro, his history includes a long stint as a Director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Senior Manager at Grant Thornton LLP. Mr. Burnett received his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (Accounting) from Old Dominion University, and a Masters of Science in Taxation from Golden Gate University. He is both a Certified Public Accountant and a Certified Treasury Professional.​
“I am thrilled to be joining BKF Capital Group and look forward to developing a strong financial foundation around the company’s strategy to launching new investment vehicles. We are well positioned to generate value opportunities where a creative approach to capital can create mutually beneficial results,” said Mr. Burnett.
About BKF Capital Group, Inc.
BKF Capital Group, Inc., with a principal office at 31248 Oak Crest Drive, Suite 110, Westlake Village, California 91361, operates through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, BKF Investment Group, Inc., and BKF Asset Holdings, Inc. The company trades on the over the counter market under the symbol "BKFG". Currently, the company plans to build an asset management business platform with investment vehicles that focus on areas of portfolio management that typically receive less attention from investors but also present unique investment opportunities. The company is also engaged in seeking to arrange an acquisition, with an operating business with revenues, at least three years of operating history and unique value opportunities. In seeking to consummate a merger, acquisition, business combination or other arrangement by and between the company and a viable operating entity, the company's objective will be to obtain long-term capital appreciation for the company's shareholders. For more information, please see our website at www.bkfcapital.com .
Forward Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the company’s views on future financial performance, market growth, new customers, and new product introductions, and are generally identified by phrases such as “thinks,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” and similar words. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are inherently subject to uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statement. These statements are based upon, among other things, assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management, including management’s own knowledge and assessment of the company’s industry, competition and capital requirements. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company Contact
Steven N. Bronson, Chairman & CEO
BKF Capital Group, Inc.
31248 Oak Crest Drive (Suite 110)
Westlake Village, CA 91361
Telephone: 805-617-4419
E-mail: ir@bkfcapital.com
Source:BKF Capital Group, Inc.