NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Notice is hereby given that Monteverde & Associates PC has filed a class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for The District of Minnesota, case no. 0:18-cv-00047, on behalf of shareholders of Buffalo Wild Wings, Inc. ("Buffalo Wild Wings" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: BWLD) who held Buffalo Wild Wings securities and have been harmed by Buffalo Wild Wings and its board of directors' (the "Board") for alleged violations of Sections 14(a), and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") in connection with the merger of the Company to Arby's Restaurant Group, Inc.
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Buffalo Wild Wings shareholders will have the right to receive $157.00 in cash per share for each share of Company common stock they own (the "Merger Consideration"). The Proposed Transaction is valued at approximately $2.9 billion. December 28, 2017, Buffalo Wild Wings filed a Definitive Proxy Statement (the "Proxy") on Schedule 14A with the SEC. The complaint alleges that the Proxy, which recommends that Buffalo Wild Wings shareholders vote in favor of the Proposed Transaction, omits or misrepresents material information concerning, among other things: (i) the financial analyses conducted by the Company's financial advisor, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC ("Goldman Sachs"); and (ii) past dealings or a historical relationship between Goldman Sachs and either Buffalo Wild Wings or Arby's.
If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later than 60 days from today. Any member of the putative class may move the Court to serve as lead plaintiff through counsel of their choice, or may choose to do nothing and remain an absent class member. If you wish to discuss this action, or have any questions concerning this notice or your rights or interests, please contact:
Click here for more information: www.monteverdelaw.com/investigations/m-a/ It is free and there is no cost or obligation to you.
Monteverde & Associates PC is a boutique class action securities and consumer litigation law firm committed that has recovered millions of dollars and is committed to protecting shareholders and consumers from corporate wrongdoing. Monteverde & Associates PC lawyers have significant experience litigating Mergers & Acquisitions and Securities Class Actions, whereby they protect investors by recovering money and remedying corporate misconduct. Mr. Monteverde, who leads the legal team at the firm, has been recognized by Super Lawyers as a Rising Star in Securities Litigation in 2013 and 2017, an award given to less than 2.5% of attorneys in a particular field. He has also been selected by Martindale-Hubbell as a 2017 Top Rated Lawyer.
Contact:
Juan E. Monteverde, Esq.
MONTEVERDE & ASSOCIATES PC
The Empire State Building
350 Fifth Ave, Suite 4405
New York, NY 10118
United States of America
jmonteverde@monteverdelaw.com
Tel: (212) 971-1341
Attorney Advertising. (C) 2017 Monteverde & Associates PC. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome with respect to any future matter.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/monteverde--associates-pc-files-class-action-lawsuit-on-behalf-of-shareholders-of-buffalo-wild-wings-inc-in-the-district-of-minnesota-300580174.html
SOURCE Monteverde & Associates PC