WASHINGTON, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Business development and consulting leader will play critical role as culture and strategy consultancy grows.
THRUUE is pleased to announce that Jame Cofran, a business development and consulting executive, has been named president of THRUUE, Inc., as of Jan. 1.
Cofran was recently the chief marketing officer and senior vice president of business development of CGI Group Inc., a global IT and business consulting services firm. From 2004 to 2016, he was part of a team that helped CGI grow from $3B in annual revenues primarily from Canada to $11B in annual revenues from more than 40 countries.
"I feel fortunate to have experienced the increased level of performance that results from building a culture that is fully aligned with an organization's strategy," Cofran said. "I am delighted to join the THRUUE team and help CEOs and their leadership teams benefit from closing their culture gaps."
Earlier in his career, Cofran was founder and CEO of a digital credit services company and held numerous positions at American Management Systems. He is a proven innovator and holds multiple patents for digital transformation of business processes. He transitions to his role as THRUUE president from serving as principal of IntelliVen, a management consulting company that helps match executive talent with emerging businesses and provides support to help companies grow and thrive.
"Jame is an outstanding addition to our leadership team," THRUUE CEO and founder Daniel Forrester said. "He joins at the right moment as leaders across the country learn that intentional evolution in corporate culture is often the key to successful strategy implementation."
Cofran will be based in Washington D.C. and responsible for day-to-day operations and client satisfaction.
"Jame has been integral to IntelliVen helping early stage ventures get on track to reach their potential. As THRUUE president Jame steps up to do the same for large, mature organizations that realize getting culture right is the best way to implement strategy," said Peter DiGiammarino, IntelliVen CEO and THRUUE board chairman. "He's a proven leader with a great record."
ABOUT THRUUE: THRUUE is an expert consultancy helping CEOs and their leadership teams close the gap between their organization's strategy and its culture.
Contact: Emily Paquin, emily@thruue.com
Related Links
THRUUE
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jame-cofran-named-president-of-thruue-inc-300582564.html
SOURCE THRUUE, Inc.