DETROIT, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The Floow, one of the world's fastest-growing telematics providers, has named John Kramer as Vice President and Head of North American operations. Kramer, who brings years of experience in managing both telematics and traditional insurance programs, will oversee The Floow's management, growth and expansion throughout the United States and Canada. Kramer is also joining the Senior Leadership Team of the company.
Based in Sheffield, England, The Floow opened its U.S. headquarters last September in Detroit. Combining advanced technology, data science and driver behavior training, The Floow provides drivers, insurers and auto manufacturers with an innovative telematics platform to increase driver safety and business profitability.
The four years prior to joining The Floow, Kramer worked as Director of Business Development and Customer Success for another telematics company, where he managed more than 18 insurance programs in North America. His prior experience also includes over a decade in the insurance industry, where he specialized in product, pricing and underwriting operations, and also gained expertise launching usage-based insurance programs.
"North America offers enormous opportunities for The Floow," Kramer said. "For the most part, it's still an open market for a telematics provider that can offer unique telematics solutions for every segment of the transportation spectrum, from the newest driver to the largest insurance or manufacturing giant.
"And making mobility safer and smarter for all is just what The Floow does, which is why I'm so excited to join the team," he added.
David James, Chief Operating Officer of The Floow, said Kramer's experience and passion for telematics will play a major role in the company's global growth and expansion. "John's proven leadership and knowledge of the insurance telematics industry will be invaluable assets to The Floow, not only for North America, but for our growth worldwide."
About The Floow
Based in Sheffield in the UK and Detroit in the U.S., The Floow is one of the world's leading telematics innovators, with the mission of making mobility safer and smarter for everyone. Its user-friendly telematics platform provides drivers with actionable insights and engagement propositions that improve safety and loyalty, and allow insurers, fleet companies and auto manufacturers to make more informed and profitable decisions.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-floow-appoints-john-kramer-to-head-north-american-operations-300584654.html
SOURCE The Floow