DRESHER, Pa., Ascensus , a technology-enabled service provider that helps more than 7 million Americans save for the future, has acquired Dedicated Defined Benefit Services ("Dedicated DB"). The defined benefit plan design, administration, and consulting firm will immediately become part of Ascensus' TPA Solutions line of business within the company's retirement division. With the acquisition, Ascensus will be able to offer clients access to even more retirement plan experience and expertise while adding another location to its geographic footprint.
Dedicated DB, which is based in Glendale, California, is the only national company focused exclusively on providing defined benefit plans for high-income professionals, small businesses, and individuals with self-employment income. The firm pioneered the turnkey defined benefit plan, partnering with large financial firms to open streamlined, ready-to-use plans across the country.
"We recognized Dedicated DB as an excellent candidate to join Ascensus based on their commitment to helping clients keep more of their earnings by offering the most complete and tax-efficient retirement programs available," states David Musto, Ascensus' president. "In addition to benefiting from Dedicated DB's strong RIA, advisor, and institutional relationships, we're also delighted to further expand our national footprint and offer clients enhanced access to deep defined benefit expertise."
"At Dedicated DB, we pride ourselves on our reputation and do our best to help our clients—financial advisors, CPAs, and business owners—meet their goals," says Karen Shapiro, Dedicated DB's chief executive officer. "Becoming part of Ascensus ensures that we'll be able to provide quality, quick-adoption retirement plans for many years to come."
"Dedicated DB adds some very compelling lead-sourcing technology to Ascensus' toolkit," says Raghav Nandagopal, Ascensus' executive vice president of corporate development and M&A. "We continue to look for companies that will not only allow us to assist Americans in saving for retirement, college, and healthcare, but also help our company to grow and fuel our ongoing investment in service offerings and technology."
About Ascensus
Ascensus helps more than 7 million Americans save for the future—retirement, college, and healthcare—through technology-enabled solutions. With more than 35 years of experience, the firm offers tailored solutions that meet the needs of asset managers, banks, credit unions, state governments, financial professionals, employers, and individuals. Ascensus supports approximately 50,000 retirement plans, more than 4 million 529 college savings accounts, and a growing number of ABLE savings accounts. It also administers more than 1.7 million IRAs and health savings accounts. As of September 30, 2017, Ascensus had over $158 billion in total assets under administration. For more information about Ascensus, visit ascensus.com . For more information about Ascensus TPA Solutions, visit tpa.ascensus.com .
View career opportunities at careers.ascensus.com/page/show/tpa and careers.ascensus.com or on LinkedIn at linkedin.com/company/ascensus . For the latest company news, follow @AscensusInc on Twitter.
 with multimedia: releases/ascensus-bolsters-defined-benefit-plan-expertise-with-acquisition-of-dedicated-defined-benefit-services-300576589.html
SOURCE Ascensus