NEWS HIGHLIGHTS
Intel promotes Leslie S. Culbertson to executive vice president and general manager, Intel Product Assurance and Security Group. Intel promotes Dr. Ann B. Kelleher to senior vice president of the Technology and Manufacturing Group. Intel promotes Dr. Michael Mayberry to senior vice president and Chief Technology Officer. Intel promotes Matthew M. Smith to senior vice president and Chief Human Resources Officer.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intel Corporation today announced that its board of directors has promoted four corporate officers.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005173/en/
Intel Corporation announces the promotion of Leslie S. Culbertson to executive vice president and general manager, Intel Product Assurance and Security Group on Wednesday, Jan. 31, 2018. (Credit: Intel Corporation)
Leslie S. Culbertson was promoted to executive vice president and general manager of the Intel Product Assurance and Security Group from senior vice president of Human Resources. In this role, Culbertson will lead Intel’s cross-company efforts to continuously improve Intel’s product security. Most recently, Culbertson was Intel’s Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO). Culbertson joined Intel in 1979 and was elected to corporate vice president and director of finance in 2003.
Dr. Ann B. Kelleher was promoted to senior vice president from corporate vice president of Intel’s Technology Manufacturing Group. She is responsible for corporate quality assurance, corporate services, customer fulfillment and supply chain management. She is also responsible for strategic planning for the company’s worldwide manufacturing operations. Kelleher joined Intel in 1996 as a process engineer, going on to manage technology transfers and factory ramp-ups in a variety of positions spanning 200mm and 300mm technologies.
Dr. Michael Mayberry was promoted to senior vice president and Intel’s Chief Technology Officer from corporate vice president. He is also the managing director of Intel Labs. He is responsible for Intel’s global research efforts in computing and communications. In addition he leads the Corporate Research Council, which drives allocation and prioritization of directed university research across Intel. Mayberry joined Intel in 1984 as a process integration engineer, and has held various positions since then. In 2005, he moved to Components Research and was responsible for research to enable future process options for Intel’s technology development organizations.
Matthew M. Smith was promoted to senior vice president and Chief Human Resource Officer from corporate vice president of human resources. As CHRO, he will join Intel’s management committee and lead the global HR team responsible for developing and executing HR strategies in support of Intel’s businesses. Smith joined Intel in 1997.
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) expands the boundaries of technology to make the most amazing experiences possible. Information about Intel can be found at newsroom.intel.com and intel.com .
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180131005173/en/
Intel Corporation
Stephanie Matthew, 669-342-8736
Stephanie.L.Matthew@intel.com
Source: Intel Corporation