0 COMMENTS The marriage of CNN and YouTube star Casey Neistat has come to an end.
The network confirmed on Thursday that the two are parting ways after their 14 months working together and that the video-sharing startup Mr. Neistat co-founded, Beme, would be absorbed into CNN.
CNN bought Beme in November 2016 for $25 million with the hopes that Mr. Neistat, the 36 year old who rose to prominence as an early creator of viral online videos, could provide an entree to younger viewers.
The acquisition led to a news-sharing app, Beme Panels, and a YouTube channel that included a semiregular show and occasional features. The company touted Mr. Neistat’s hire last June at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, where CNN Worldwide Chief Executive Jeff Zucker expressed a desire to give Beme the time and resources to create something new.
But in an interview with BuzzFeed, which first reported Mr. Neistat’s exit, the YouTube star said he decided to leave after being unable to figure out a strategy for Beme News.
Matt Hackett, who co-founded Beme with Mr. Neistat, wrote in a Medium post Thursday that CNN had allowed the Beme team to operate independently “with a financial, editorial, and technological leash as long as we could wish for.”
“Ultimately, while we have built some valuable things, we didn’t hit the escape velocity the business needed to exist independently,” Mr. Hackett wrote.
The exit of Mr. Neistat is only the latest speed bump in CNN’s digital strategy. In December, the company pulled the plug on its Snapchat show, “The Update,” after coming to the realization there wasn’t a clear enough path to make money. Meanwhile, CNN has been experimenting and investing in its digital arm , with a goal to reach $1 billion in digital revenue by 2022, and plans to launch subscription offerings for its digital news business this year to reduce its dependence on advertising.
Andrew Morse, the head of CNN Digital, said the decision to cancel the Snapchat show and Mr. Neistat’s departure are unrelated and said CNN is still committed to investing in digital video.
“If we could do it all over again, unquestionably we would have placed this bet,” Mr. Morse said. “You have to be willing to take swings in a media environment that’s changing as fast as this is.”
A portion of Beme’s 22-member staff will be invited to reapply for jobs elsewhere at CNN, and the company will continue producing videos under the Beme banner, Mr. Morse said. Some employees will be laid off, he said.