LADERA RANCH, Calif., Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Money360, a technology-enabled direct lender specializing in commercial real estate loans, today announced that effective immediately, Todd Ruppert, former CEO and president of T. Rowe Price Global Investment Services, has joined the company’s Board of Advisors.
“Todd’s deep experience in both traditional asset management and innovative financial technology make him a perfect fit for our Board of Advisors,” said Evan Gentry, Money360 Founder and CEO. “As a venture capitalist and someone who has spent decades working closely with investors, Todd will be a great resource as we further develop our U.S. and international investor relationships.”
Mr. Ruppert brings more than 40 years of experience in the financial services industry to Money360. During his time at T. Rowe Price, a global asset management firm with over $940 billion assets under management, he held several executive positions including CEO and President of Global Investment Services and co-president of T. Rowe Price International. He was also a member of the operating steering committee of the T. Rowe Price Group.
Currently, Mr. Ruppert serves as the CEO of Ruppert International, a firm with diversified interests globally in various fields including financial services, disruptive technologies and strategy consulting. Additionally, he serves as a venture partner at Greenspring Associates, a venture capital firm with over $6 billion in assets under management, and as senior advisor to Motive Partners, an investment firm focused on financial technology, SenaHill Partners, a fintech merchant bank, and others. Mr. Ruppert is also on the board of INSEAD business school.
Mr. Ruppert said, “The financial services industry is changing rapidly as disruptors such as Money360 use technology to bring increased speed, efficiency and transparency to the sector in general and commercial real estate specifically. Money360’s executive team possesses the unique combination of decades of real estate and finance experience with a deep understanding of how technology can be employed to continuously improve the experience for their customers and investors. I look forward to being a part of this team and helping them drive further innovation in this space.”
In addition to Mr. Ruppert, Ron Suber, former President of Prosper Marketplace, the first marketplace lending platform in the U.S., and a fintech industry leader and veteran, recently joined the Money360 Board of Advisors.
About Money360
Money360 is transforming commercial real estate finance with its fast, transparent and reliable platform for borrowers and investors. Money360 is a nationwide, tech-enabled direct lender that offers borrowers speed, convenience and reasonable terms on commercial real estate loans from $1 million to $20 million. The company also provides investors direct access to attractive fixed income investments secured with a first-priority lien against income-producing commercial real estate. Money360's investment management company, M360 Advisors, LLC, manages diversified fund vehicles on behalf of investors. Borrowers and lenders (investors) can register at www.money360.com .
Contact Information
Carly Hall
chall@prosek.com
212.279.3115 ext 319
Source: Money360