MALVERN, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AC Lordi, a boutique accounting and management consulting firm, today announced that Joe DiBianca of Global Tax Management (GTM) has been appointed to its Board of Managers. As a member of the Board, Joe will provide guidance to firm leadership in areas such as major firm initiatives, strategic investment decisions, and service line growth.
“Joe will bring an important outside perspective that will allow us to challenge our vision, strategy, and policies in order to help better define and improve them,” said AC Lordi CEO and Managing Principal Frank Lordi. “His experience as leader of a consulting firm in a similar geographic area with comparable client size and practice development challenges will be invaluable as we continue to grow and look for ways to better serve our clients.”
Joe has over 35 years of experience in the tax services arena. He is the founder of GTM and now serves as its Chairman of the Board and strategic advisor responsible for advising the company on growth and strategic planning initiatives, supporting client relations, and assisting the firm’s management team as requested. Joe previously served for 20 years as President and Managing Director of GTM. Before founding GTM, Joe served as VP of Tax for a Fortune 500 company, where he worked for eight years. He also spent eight years as Senior Tax Manager at Main Hurdman, which later merged to become KPMG.
About AC Lordi
AC Lordi is a boutique consulting firm offering accounting and finance, risk & compliance, business advisory, and CFO services. It serves a broad range of clients from emerging growth through multi-national organizations across most major industries with deep experience in life sciences, manufacturing and distribution, utilities, chemicals, private equity, professional services, and software & technology. The company is headquartered in Malvern, PA. For more information visit: www.aclordi.com .
Copyright © 2018 AC Lordi LLC. All rights reserved. AC Lordi LLC, its subsidiaries, and their respective taglines are either trademarks or registered trademarks of AC Lordi LLC or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks used are owned by their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005509/en/
AC Lordi
John Conroy, 323.828.3961
jconroy@aclordi.com
Source: AC Lordi