NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WeissLaw LLP is investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law by the Board of Directors of Juno Therapeutics Inc. ("JUNO" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: JUNO) in connection with the proposed acquisition of the Company by Celgene Corp. ("CELG") (NASDAQ: CELG). Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive $87.00 in cash for each JUNO share they own.
WeissLaw is investigating whether JUNO's Board acted to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. Notably, at least one analyst set a target price of $98.00 per share, or $11.00 above the per share offer.
Moreover, the acquisition of JUNO will give CELG access to the Company's valuable portfolio of CAR-T cancer drugs, particularly JUNO's JCAR017 which is expected to receive regulatory approval in 2019. CELG believes the drug will be a boon to its growth, anticipating peak sales of approximately $3 billion.
Given these facts, WeissLaw is investigating whether JUNO's Board acted in the best interests of JUNO's public shareholders to maximize shareholder value prior to entering into the agreement. If you own JUNO shares and would like more information about your rights or our investigation, or if you have information to share with us, please contact Joshua Rubin by telephone at (888) 593-4771 or by email at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com .
WeissLaw LLP has litigated hundreds of stockholder class and derivative actions for violations of corporate and fiduciary duties. We have recovered over a billion dollars for defrauded clients and obtained important corporate governance relief in many of these cases. If you have information or would like legal advice concerning possible corporate wrongdoing (including insider trading, waste of corporate assets, accounting fraud, or materially misleading information), consumer fraud (including false advertising, defective products, or other deceptive business practices), or anti-trust violations, please email us at stockinfo@weisslawllp.com or fill out the form on our website, http://www.weisslawllp.com/juno-therapeutics-inc/
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/weisslaw-llp-investigates-juno-therapeutics-inc-acquisition-300587630.html
SOURCE WeissLaw LLP