Experienced Energy Industry Executive to Support Company Growth in IT and Supply Chain Operations
SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Speedcast International Limited (ASX: SDA), the world’s most trusted provider of highly reliable, fully managed, remote communication and IT solutions, today announced the appointment of John Truschinger as Chief Information Officer (CIO), reporting to CEO Pierre-Jean Beylier.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006890/en/
Speedcast today announced the appointment of John Truschinger as Chief Information Officer (CIO). (Photo: Business Wire)
Truschinger is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps where he served as a sergeant until being honorably discharged in 1981. He has 35 years’ experience working in IT and supply chain, and most recently held the position of SVP and CIO for Transocean until 2015. Over the past two years Truschinger has worked as a private consultant, providing IT, executive coaching and team-building related services to corporations. As Speedcast’s CIO, he will be based in Houston and will assume global responsibility for IT, supply chain, QHSE and facilities, which were functions previously under the COO. He will also be in charge of a new department, digital transformation, which is being created as the group intends to further enhance its customers’ experience.
"I am thoroughly impressed with Speedcast's growth, leadership and overall business strategy, and am excited to join such a dynamic company where I believe I can truly make a difference,” said Truschinger, CIO, Speedcast. “The company’s investments in people and its core C.A.S.T. values strongly correlate to my personal ideologies, using a ‘people-focused’ approach to build great teams that provide great service. I think the similarities in our approaches will help us to significantly advance this organization.”
“I am excited to add John to our executive team in this new CIO role, which entails some key areas of responsibility,” said PJ Beylier, CEO, Speedcast. “His expertise and leadership in developing global IT and supply chain functions will be key to the success of Speedcast’s vision moving forward. In addition, John’s experience as a leader in charge, among other things, of key IT and communications activities at one of the top global energy organizations will prove very valuable as Speedcast continues to build its leadership position in the energy sector.”
As the organization increases its focus in 2018 on streamlining operations and providing an exceptional customer experience, Truschinger began his role at Speedcast on Jan. 15. After the significant integration of the company’s global network in 2017, Speedcast now manages the world’s most robust satellite-based communications network, leveraging over 70 satellites and a wide global terrestrial network, and the industry’s largest team of over 200 field engineers in 40 countries. The company strives to be a strategic business partner for its customers, supporting them wherever they operate with highly reliable communications and IT services, driving innovation and helping them transform their business through digital solutions.
About Speedcast International Limited
Speedcast International Ltd (ASX: SDA) is the largest provider of remote communications and IT services in the world. Speedcast’s fully managed service is delivered via a leading global, multi-access-technology, multi-band and multi-orbit network of 70+ satellites and an interconnecting global terrestrial network, bolstered by extensive on the ground local support from 40+ countries. This global “network of networks” allows customers to fully rely on the most robust, integrated infrastructure available in the market for their mission critical applications. Speedcast is uniquely positioned as a strategic business partner, tailoring communications, IT and digital solutions to meet unique customer needs and enable business transformation. Speedcast extends its managed services through differentiated technology offerings including cyber-security, crew welfare, content solutions, data and voice applications and network systems integration services. With a passionate customer focus and a strong safety culture, Speedcast serves more than 2,000 customers in over 140 countries in sectors such as Maritime, Energy, Mining, Enterprise, Media, Cruise, NGOs and Government. Learn more at www.speedcast.com .
Social Media: Twitter | LinkedIn | Facebook
Speedcast® is a trademark and registered trademark of Speedcast International Limited. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners.
© 2018 Speedcast International Limited. All rights reserved.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006890/en/
Speedcast International Ltd
Toni Lee Rudnicki , +1-832-668-2634
Vice President, Global Marketing
ToniLee.Rudnicki@Speedcast.com
Source: Speedcast International Limited