SILVER SPRING, Md., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- SLI Global Solutions, LLC has appointed Steven Esposito as President and Chief Executive Officer. Esposito will be responsible for SLI's corporate strategy and execution and will lead the company's growth in systems development oversight markets and in its children and family services program and policy improvement arena.
Esposito will report to President and CEO of the GLI Group, James Maida. He replaces Mark Phillips, who announced his retirement earlier last year.
"Steven's knowledge of the challenges facing government program and experience in taking and executing a strategic vision will strengthen SLI Global Solutions' position as an industry leader. With a proven track record for successfully directing large public-sector initiatives and driving innovation, Steven's leadership skills are well suited to drive SLI's efforts as we continue in our mission to help government entities improve service delivery," Maida said. "We are grateful to Mark Phillips for the tireless service gave to SLI. His leadership has created a positive situation for the smoothest possible transition."
Esposito brings more than 30 years of experience in leading IT and program operations to SLI Global Solutions. Most recently, he served as President of the Government Solutions Division of SLI. Prior to SLI, he was Senior Vice President at MAXIMUS where he was responsible for managing the Systems Integrity Division in the Consulting Segment of the firm. He also worked for the State of Arizona's Department of Economic Security for 10 years, where he led the Systems and Automation Administration for the Division of Child Support Enforcement.
Esposito received his Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration/Marketing from Arizona State University. He is a PMI-certified Project Management Professional (PMP) and Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control (CRISC) by ISACA.
About SLI Global Solutions
SLI Global Solutions (SLI) is headquartered in Silver Spring, Maryland, with project locations in over a dozen capital cities across the US. SLI is committed to helping state agencies build quality and innovation into their system implementations and program improvement initiatives. SLI is committed to the use of a standards-based quality management methodology that has been proven effective in a wide range of system implementations and process improvement projects. SLI's SQM3 methodology is ISO 9001:2015 certified. For more information, visit www.sliglobalsolutions.com .
Contact:
Mark Joyce, Director of Business Development
307-220-8855, mjoyce@sliglobalsolutions.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sli-global-solutions-names-steven-esposito-as-chief-executive-officer-300576693.html
SOURCE SLI Global Solutions