NEW YORK, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Tripp Levy PLLC, a leading national securities and shareholder rights law firm, announces that it is investigating the potential sale of Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: HAWK) ("Blackhawk" or the "Company") on behalf of its shareholders. Blackhawk announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by private equity firms Silver Lake and P2 Capital Partners in a cash deal valued at approximately $3.5 billion. The firms will acquire Blackhawk for $45.25 in cash per share.
Our investigation has determined that the offer price of only $45.25 per share, unfairly under-values the true going forward inherent value of Blackhawk and that shareholders may not be receiving the maximum value for their shares. Indeed, the stock reached a high of $46.70 per share this year, and analysts have a target price of $51 per share. The investigation further seeks to determine whether Blackhawk's senior management is entering into this deal for their own self-interests to the detriment of the Company's shareholders. Indeed, P2P Partners beneficially owns approximately 5.4% of the Company's stock.
If you are a shareholder of Blackhawk and would like additional information as to how the proposed acquisition may affect your rights as a shareholder, and how you may be eligible to obtain a higher price for your shares at no cost, please contact us at:
Tripp Levy PLLC
New York, New York
Toll free: 800-511-7037
International: 602-241-2841
Email: contact@tripplevy.com
www.tripplevy.com
Tripp Levy PLLC represents individual and institutional shareholders in mergers and acquisitions transactions and has assisted in the recovery of billions of dollars for shareholders in securities actions around the globe.
Attorney advertising. Prior results do not indicate a similar outcome.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blackhawk-buyout-alert---national-securities-law-firm-seeks-higher-price-for-blackhawk-network-shareholders-in-connection-with-proposed-buyout-and-encourages-shareholders-to-contact-law-firm-for-more-information-300583152.html
SOURCE Tripp Levy PLLC