NEW YORK, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Pernod Ricard USA is pleased to announce that it has completed the acquisition of the remaining stake in Avión Spirits LLC, owner of the ultra-premium tequila brand Avión, from its joint-venture partner Tequila Avión. Founder Ken Austin and President Jenna Fagnan, along with Grammy Award winner Jeezy, will remain highly involved and incentivized through an earn out mechanism at least until 2020 to help fuel its next wave of growth.
"Avión has become a leading aspirational lifestyle brand in the fast-growing ultra-premium tequila category. This acquisition is important for Pernod Ricard USA as we focus on premiumization and building brands that consumers are passionate about," said Paul Duffy, Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard USA. "We look forward to continuing to develop and grow this exciting brand."
"This clearly displays Pernod Ricard's commitment to this high-potential brand which was voted World's Best Tasting Tequila at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition," said Ken Austin, Founder and Chairman of Tequila Avión. "The Pernod Ricard people, distributors and brokers have been and will continue to be key drivers in taking Avión to the next level."
About Tequila Avión ®
Tequila Avión® is an ultra-premium tequila founded by Ken Austin and produced with third generation agave growers from single source rare Blue Weber agave from Jesus Maria in the highest region of Jalisco, Mexico. Tequila Avion's distinct flavors are created slowly in small batches using a meticulous, time intensive distilling process and proprietary ultra-slow filtration Tequila Avión is available in Silver, Reposado, Anejo, Espresso Liqueur and Avión Reserva 44 Extra Anejo. Avión was named Best Tasting Unaged White Spirit and Best Tasting Tequila in the World at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition. In July 2014, Pernod Ricard (RI: EN Paris), No.2 in the Wine & Spirits sector, took a majority interest in Tequila Avión. For further information, or to locate bars, clubs, restaurants and liquor stores that sell, stock, or carry Tequila Avión, please visit TequilaAvion.com . Fans can also follow Tequila Avión on Facebook at facebook.com/TequilaAvion or on Instagram @TequilaAvion.
About Pernod Ricard USA®
Pernod Ricard USA is the premium spirits and wine company in the U.S., and the largest subsidiary of Paris, France-based Pernod Ricard SA. The company's leading spirits and wines include such prestigious brands as Absolut® Vodka, Avión® Tequila, Chivas Regal® Scotch Whisky, The Glenlivet® Single Malt Scotch Whisky, Jameson® Irish Whiskey, Kahlúa® Liqueur, Malibu®, Martell® Cognac, Olmeca Altos™ Tequila, Beefeater® Gin, Del Maguey® Single Village Mezcal, Monkey 47® Gin, Plymouth® Gin, Seagram's® Extra Dry Gin, Hiram Walker® Liqueurs, Lot No. 40® Canadian Whiskey, Midleton® Irish Whiskey, Powers® Irish Whiskey, Redbreast® Irish Whiskey, Smithworks® Vodka, Smooth Ambler® Whiskey, Pernod®, and Ricard®; such superior wines as Jacob's Creek®, Kenwood® Vineyards, Campo Viejo® and Brancott Estate®; and such exquisite champagnes and sparkling wines as Perrier-Jouët® Champagne, G.H. Mumm™ Champagne and Mumm Napa® sparkling wines.
Pernod Ricard USA urges all adults to consume its products responsibly and has an active campaign to promote responsible drinking. For more information on this, please visit: www.responsibility.org .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pernod-ricard-acquires-remaining-stake-in-avion-tequila-300583877.html
SOURCE Pernod Ricard USA