HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pannell Kerr Forster of Texas, P.C. (PKF Texas) is pleased to announce Nikki Homratsamy, CPA, has been promoted to Tax Director. Additionally, Audit Directors, Ryan Istre, CPA and Chris Hatten, CPA, CM&AA, have been added to the shareholder group.
“Nikki, Ryan, and Chris have all contributed greatly to PKF Texas, and we are proud of their achievements,” said Kenneth Guidry, CPA, President. “These are important milestones in their respective careers and for the firm’s consistent success.”
Homratsamy has spent the majority of her career serving clients in the middle market, including a number of closely-held and publicly-traded companies in a variety of industries including manufacturing and distribution, oilfield services, and technology. She joined the firm in 2010.
Istre has extensive experience in providing external audit services to domestic and international businesses in the areas of real estate, manufacturing and energy services for both the public and private sector. He joined PKF Texas as an Associate in 2000.
Hatten’s experience includes audit and financial consulting for publicly owned and privately held businesses. Areas of industry concentration include power generation, oilfield service, midstream energy, hospitality, manufacturing and software development companies. He joined the firm in 2006.
About Pannell Kerr Forster of Texas, P.C. (PKF Texas)
PKF Texas is a premiere middle-market CPA firm in Houston, with a 32-year history focused on co-creating solutions with entrepreneurial-minded businesses and organizations. We provide audit, accounting, domestic and international tax, consulting, and entrepreneurial advisory services to emerging and middle market companies across many industries. Through PKF International, Allinial Global and the Leading Edge Alliance, we have access to worldwide resources. To learn more about PKF Texas, visit www.pkftexas.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117006474/en/
PKF Texas
Jen Lemanski, 713.860.5457
jlemanski@pkftexas.com
Source: PKF Texas