0 COMMENTS Good morning. Actress and comedian Tiffany Haddish spun an incredibly funny yarn on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” last year when she recalled taking Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith on a Louisiana swamp tour using Groupon vouchers. Groupon’s marketing team would have been foolish not to jump on the opportunity to officially link itself with one of 2017’s breakout comedy stars. They’re not holding back. Groupon superfan Ms. Haddish (who is apparently a “verified super user in the top 1%” of its customers) is now an official company spokesperson, and she’s landed a role in the deals site’s 2018 Super Bowl ad .
Airbrushed Away “Authenticity” is an oft-used phrase in marketers’ lexicons. In recent years, marketers that work within the beauty category have realized that authenticity isn’t just a vehicle to peddle more product—they have a responsibility not to reinforce potentially harmful body image stereotypes. Drugstore chain CVS has become the latest brand to recognize the role it can play in its marketing to help reduce body image-associated health issues. From April, CVS will stop “materially” altering beauty images in its marketing and it’s asking brand partners—including Revlon, L’Oréal and Johnson & Johnson—to join the effort, CMO Today reports. Consumers will be able to identify CVS’s transparency efforts with a watermark that will appear on all images that haven’t been materially altered, while airbrushed images will carry a “digitally modified” label. CVS is far from the first brand to make such commitments—France even recently passed a “ Photographie retouchée ” law that requires ads to be labeled if they’ve been airbrushed —but the move from such a big retailer could help drive consistency around how digitally-altered ads are presented to U.S. consumers.
Talk to Me Procter & Gamble is famed for its issues-based marketing. You might remember last summer, the CPG giant launched a powerful digital film called “ The Talk ,” which depicted black mothers having tough conversations with their children about the racial prejudices they are likely to face. It provoked a strong response , both in support and from critics. Now, P&G is elevating the effort, with a spokesman saying the reaction to the ad “reinforced our belief that the dialog around bias not only needs to continue, but it also needs to be broadened so people from different backgrounds and experiences can participate.” As Variety reports, P&G has forged an ad pact with ABC that will see the characters in its popular sitcom “Black-ish” discuss the ad in Tuesday’s episode. The original ad itself will also air again, which might aid viewers in drawing the link between the themes in the episode and P&G’s paid-for promotion.
He Don’t Love You (Like I Love You) Television producers have never been in more demand as an influx of deep-pocketed streaming entrants—from Netflix to Hulu to Amazon—battle to nab the next best thing in original programming to drive up their subscriber numbers. HBO’s message is that because it cherry-picks the best content, rather than stockpiling shows like its rivals, it’s prepared to have much more of a hands-on relationship , WSJ’s Joe Flint reports. “If you have 50 kids, you’re not going to every soccer game,” HBO Programming President Casey Bloys said. “We go to every soccer game, and we’re the snack parents at every soccer game.” That level of engagement also speaks somewhat to how HBO’s marketing approach differs from the likes of Netflix. Not releasing all of a show’s episodes at once allows it to be more flexible with its marketing. Case in point: With “Big Little Lies” HBO concentrated half of the marketing push on the latter end of the show’s run, boosting ratings heading into the finale. Netflix’s marketing approach, meanwhile, tends to be more personalized based on what people watch.
The Guardian and GDPR On Monday, I was over at the Guardian’s London HQ where the company was showing off its new-look tabloid size newspaper . The company is hoping to save “millions” on printing costs by moving away from the larger “Berliner” format. I also snuck in a question about how the Guardian is prepping for Europe’s new General Data Protection Regulation, which requires companies to obtain permission from European citizens to use their data. The theory goes that publishers stand to benefit because they have a direct relationship with their audience (indeed, the Guardian says more than 800,000 people have made regular or one-off monetary contributions to the title) but there’s also the chance their ad rates could drop if consumers say “no” to their data being used for targeting. Here’s a summary of what the Guardian CEO David Pemsel told me:
It’s difficult to predict financially. The publisher hasn’t baked GDPR into its financial modeling yet, although it’s viewed as more of a “cost” right now considering the “staggering” amount of work that’s gone into preparing for the May 25 deadline.
The Guardian will probably work with fewer partners as a result. The Guardian wants to work with partners that combine first-party data that has been correctly permissioned. “Anyone who still tries to trade through aggregated, anonymous data is probably not going to have a business.”
Ultimately, Mr. Pemsel thinks it’ll be a “really good thing” for the Guardian. “Part of our overall three year plan is about us building meaningful relationships with our readers and that does include data.”
Best of the rest A look at what it will take for advertising dollars to be transacted through blockchain. [ AdExchanger ]
Apple and Tencent have reached a deal to allow WeChat users to send monetary gifts, or tips, to their favorite video-streaming stars and content creators. Apple had suspended the tipping function last year because it contended the tips amounted to in-app purchases, which it said entitled the company to a 30% cut of the amount transferred. [ WSJ ]
Slate says podcasts account for 25% of its revenue. [ Digiday ]
For many news publishers, Apple News traffic is on the rise. But it doesn’t look like lifestyle publishers are seeing the same uptick in Apple News referrals, which won’t help them make up the shortfall from Facebook’s forthcoming algorithm change. [ Digiday ]
Snapchat content chief Nick Bell says the app’s redesign, which is in the progress of being rolled out, will bring “more prominence to premium content.” He also said the launch of scripted Snapchat Shows is “imminent,” having previously predicted they would come to the platform by the end of 2017. [ Variety ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O'Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com