DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Mountaingate Capital (“Mountaingate”), a Denver-based private equity firm employing a proven, buy-and-build strategy that empowers lower middle market companies with strong growth potential and engaged leadership teams, is pleased to announce that JB Richardson and Trent Sisson have joined the firm as Principal and Vice President, respectively. JB and Trent both previously worked closely with the partners of Mountaingate at their predecessor firm.
“We are thrilled to welcome JB and Trent to Mountaingate and to have the opportunity to work with them again. Our relationships with them go back over a decade. They are insightful investors and after starting their careers in investment banking and private equity, they have each gained invaluable experiences as operators in private equity backed and venture backed companies. Their experience in operations, technology, analytics, sales and marketing combined with their deal execution skills will be extremely valuable in supporting our portfolio company management teams and delivering the superior returns we strive to achieve for our investors,” said Bennett Thompson, Managing Director.
JB Richardson, a newly-appointed Principal with Mountaingate, was most recently the Chief Operating Officer of SquareTwo Financial, a Denver-based specialty finance company. At SquareTwo, over the course of nine years JB served in a series of leadership positions covering strategy, multi-site operations, analytics, sales, technology, and marketing. Prior to that, he was an Associate with Mountaingate’s predecessor firm KRG Capital Partners from 2007-2009, after starting his career as an investment banker with Wells Fargo Securities.
Trent Sisson joins Mountaingate as a Vice President. Immediately prior to joining Mountaingate, Trent served as Director of Global Sales Operations with Sprinklr, Inc., a New York-based Enterprise SaaS company offering a front-end platform for managing social networks. Before Sprinklr, Trent worked in sales finance for PepsiCo, Inc. after earning his MBA from Columbia Business School. Trent was an Associate with Mountaingate’s predecessor firm KRG Capital Partners from 2010-2013 and also began his career as an investment banker with Wells Fargo Securities.
About Mountaingate Capital
Mountaingate Capital is a private equity firm based in Denver that specializes in building and empowering lower middle market companies with strong growth potential and engaged leadership teams. The firm was launched by a team of partners with deep investment expertise in four distinct market sectors: marketing services, business/industrial services, specialty distribution and specialty manufacturing, including medical devices. Mountaingate’s focus on organic growth coupled with its proven customer-centric buy-and-build approach for add-on acquisitions and shared equity ownership with management creates more value for the end customer, while forging stronger, more collaborative, and more successful investment partnerships with management teams. In 2017, Mountaingate announced the close of its first fund with $395 million in capital commitments. Mountaingate targets investments in new platform companies typically with $5 million to $25 million of EBITDA. For more information, please visit http://mountaingatecap.com/ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180123006225/en/
Mountaingate Capital
Bennett Thompson, 303-390-5001
Managing Director
Source: Mountaingate Capital