HOUSTON, TX, Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- U.S. Tungsten Corp. today announced that it has received approval from FINRA for a name change from U.S. Tungsten Corp. (Ticker symbol USTU) to Aziel Corporation, with a new ticker symbol (OTC:USTUD).
The name change will be effective at opening on January 23, 2018. The new symbol will be USTUD. The “D” will be removed in 20 business days and the symbol will change to AZIL . FINRA has also approved a one for 1,000 reverse split. The reverse split will also take effect January 22, 2018 at opening.
The Company has a new Board of Directors: Clyde Veltmann, CGA, CFGA of League City, Texas, has 20 plus years managing major insurance catastrophes throughout the United States and internationally. David Bryant II of League City started in the claims adjusting business 17 years ago. David founded and now runs one of the largest maritime agencies in the U.S. Gordon Bledsoe III of Montgomery, Texas comes from a career in investments and a former analytical merger expert with a stock brokerage firm. Gary Ilmanen of Perris, California, is a member of the California Bar Association, has a Master of Science in Systems Management, and an Engineering degree. His specialties include Contracts, Trademarks and Patents.
Aziel Corporation will engage as an investment/holding company and pursue acquisitions with synergistic companies in the insurance claims service industry. Our targets will include consulting services to include Independent Insurance Adjusting firms, Mediation services, Environmental Consulting, SIU services and Engineering services.
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure:
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. In this context, forward-looking statements may address the Company's expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "anticipates," "beliefs," "estimates," "expects," "intends," " plans," "seeks," "will," and other terms with similar meaning. These forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Although the Company believes that the assumptions upon which its forward-looking statements based are reasonable, it can provide no assurances that these assumptions will prove to be correct. All forward-looking statements in this press release are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements, risk, and uncertainties, and by reference to the underlying assumptions.
Contact Paul Knopick Pknopick@eandecommunications.com 940.262.3584
Source:Aziel Corporation