MIAMI, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Centra Tech, Inc. announced today it added top-talent to our C-level executive team. We are a firm believer of building a core foundation that supports our vision into the new year for our cryptocurrency product line.
Joining our executive team is David H. Brill , who will serve as our new Chief Executive Officer. We are excited to have David join Centra's executive team. David brings over 20 years of expertise onboard. He was previously the General Counsel of Gemini Trust Company where he completed strategic legal projects for the world's first licensed Bitcoin and Ether Exchange, regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services. David was also responsible for developing and implementing regulatory strategy for obtaining licenses internationally, and working closely with state banking regulators to obtain money transmitter licenses. David's experience includes serving as General Counsel for a private equity owned financial institution, a senior lawyer at Thomson Reuters, and as a co-founder of Celsius, a Blockchain startup. He brings extensive FinTech and cryptocurrency experience to Centra and has a strategy to drive Centra forward.
Also joining the executive team is Tom Warburton , who will be our new Chief Operating Officer. Tom brings more than 30 years of operations experience in FinTech, banking and credit cards expertise, all from a high operational level. He has recently served in senior roles at Citibank , Credit One Bank , N.A., and Circleback Lending. Tom has been responsible for leading numerous operational units including, Underwriting, Fraud, Collections, Process Accounting, Customer Support, and Presidential. He has been tasked with numerous roles, including optimizing operational strategy, scaling for growth and significant process development. We are excited to have Tom lead the way in our daily operations to ensure the highest level of commitment and satisfaction to our customers.
Our new Chief Information Security Officer is Enrique "Rick" Perez . Rick spent the last 15 years with VISA , where he was mostly recently the Senior Information Security and Compliance Officer for Global Service Operations. He previously held the titles of Director of External Penetration Test Team and Director of Information Security for VISA Latin American Region. Rick has been responsible for managing operational and security risk for more than 100 Global Customer Support Services Contact Centers through identification of risk exposures and examination of controls effectiveness to calculate residual risk. He was also responsible for ensuring adherence to Visa internal policies, PCI—DSS Standards, domestic and international regulations (including GDPR, Security Shield and PIPEDA). Rick brings a tremendous amount of expertise and experience in the card industry, which will enhance the security of our Centra Wallet and Card platforms.
Centra is pleased to welcome these three new executives and we look forward to continued growth in 2018.
Centra Card Launch
We are also very pleased to announce that we have shipped our initial batch of Centra Cards to our contributors before the end of 2017! The Centra Wallet and the Centra Card are the first products in the world to allow for 8+ Multi-Blockchain digital asset wallet and prepaid card to be used together. Going into the new year, the momentum continues and we are shipping Centra Cards weekly to our customers. Centra will soon begin processing orders for public pre-order Centra Cards.
About Centra
Centra Tech, Inc. is a Delaware Corporation, headquartered in Miami Beach, Florida. Centra offers Blockchain products such as a Wallet to store digital assets, a Prepaid Card to spend the digital assets, and three soon to be released products and services, which include a Marketplace to buy goods with the digital assets, and a cryptocurrency Exchange platform to buy, sell and trade digital assets, as well as a hyper-speed DPoS Blockchain. For more information, visit www.centra.tech.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/centra-tech-expands-leadership-team-appointing-david-h-brill-as-chief-executive-officer-tom-warburton-as-chief-operating-officer-and-enrique-perez-as-chief-information-security-officer--launches-centra-cards-worldwide-3005 .html
SOURCE Centra Tech