TINTON FALLS, N.J., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Commvault (NASDAQ: CVLT) will release the Company's financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2017, on Wednesday, January 24, 2018, followed by a webcast and conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (5:30 a.m. Pacific Time).
Investors can access the webcast by visiting www.commvault.com . The live webcast and replay will be hosted under "Investor Events" located under the "Investor Relations" section of the website. An archived webcast of this conference call will also be available following the call.
Investors may also access the call by dialing (844) 742-4247 (domestic) or (661) 378-9470 (international).
Supporting Resources
Learn more about Commvault Additional financial and stock information, news and events, and corporate governance
About Commvault
Commvault is a leading provider of data protection and information management solutions, helping companies worldwide activate their data to drive more value and business insight and to transform modern data environments. With solutions and services delivered directly and through a worldwide network of partners and service providers, Commvault solutions comprise one of the industry's leading portfolios in data protection and recovery, cloud, virtualization, archive, file sync and share. Commvault has earned accolades from customers and third party influencers for its technology vision, innovation, and execution as an independent and trusted expert. Without the distraction of a hardware business or other business agenda, Commvault's sole focus on data management has led to adoption by companies of all sizes, in all industries, and for solutions deployed on premise, across mobile platforms, to and from the cloud, and provided as-a-service. Commvault employs more than 2,700 highly skilled individuals across markets worldwide, is publicly traded on NASDAQ (CVLT), and is headquartered in Tinton Falls, New Jersey in the United States. To learn more about Commvault — and how it can help make your data work for you — visit commvault.com .
©1999-2018 Commvault Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Commvault, Commvault and logo, the "C hexagon" logo, Commvault Systems, Solving Forward, SIM, Singular Information Management, Simpana, Simpana OnePass, Commvault Galaxy, Commvault Edge, Unified Data Management, QiNetix, Quick Recovery, QR, CommNet, GridStor, Vault Tracker, InnerVault, Quick Snap, QSnap, Recovery Director, CommServe, CommCell, IntelliSnap, ROMS, APSS, CommvaultGO, CommValue, Commvault HyperScale, and ScaleProtect, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Commvault Systems, Inc. All other third party brands, products, service names, trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of and used to identify the products or services of their respective owners. All specifications are subject to change without notice.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/commvault-announces-earnings-release-date-300578264.html
SOURCE Commvault