ALAMEDA, Calif., Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- P4G Capital Management, LLC ("P4G Capital") announced today that it has acquired the assets of Unique Elevator Interiors, Inc. ("UEI", www.uniqueelevator.com ). Based in Alameda, CA, UEI manufactures and installs custom elevator interiors for elevator OEMs, general contractors, building owners, and property managers. The Company specializes in providing durable elevator parts, fixtures, floors and elevator cab panels that are light-weight while meeting the aesthetic requirements of architects, OEMs, and owners.
"We are very excited about our partnership with P4G Capital," said Tom Irion, President and co-founder of UEI. "The partners at P4G understand our dedication to quality and customer service as well as our desire to expand our business to new geographic markets."
The management team of UEI will be staying on and rolling a significant portion of their proceeds into the new entity as the Company expands its operations to provide even better response times, quality, and service to their customers while expanding to new geographies on the West Coast.
"We were looking for a financing source that understood our business and our industry as well as saw the potential to service new markets with additional capital; we found a great partner in P4G," said Tim Crawford, Vice President and co-founder of UEI.
"Unique Elevator Interiors is a fantastic company and the perfect addition to our growing portfolio," said Rachel Lehman, Managing Director of P4G Capital. "We look forward to working side-by-side with this management team to execute on their vision for the future."
TCF Bank provided financing for the transaction.
About P4G Capital
P4G Capital is a San Francisco based private equity firm founded by operators-turned-investors with a long history of partnering with management teams to create value. Partnering with fellow entrepreneurs, P4G focuses on the lower end of the middle market, providing capital, resources, and deep operational expertise to fuel extraordinary growth.
www.p4gcap.com
Media Contact: Shamus Dailey, 1-415-510-2157, sdailey@p4gcap.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/p4g-capital-announces-investment-in-unique-elevator-interiors-300577562.html
SOURCE P4G Capital Management