(Updates with change in vote tally, second and final paragraphs)
WASHINGTON, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate on Tuesday confirmed Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell as the next head of the central bank, succeeding Janet Yellen, a move likely to provide continuity in U.S. monetary policy with the economy growing now for nine years straight.
The Republican-controlled Senate voted 84-13   ebbing of some of the tensions raised by the central bank's aggressive response to the 2007-2009 financial crisis and recession.
Controversy over those Fed policies led to a narrower 56-26 vote margin when Yellen became chair in 2013, and a 70-30 vote   as chair with U.S. monetary policy on a steady course toward gradually higher interest rates and a smaller balance sheet.
However, a debate is brewing within the central bank about whether it needs to rethink its approach to inflation and whether the recent massive tax overhaul legislation will affect the U.S. economy.
Powell must also decide how far to accommodate a push by the Trump administration to roll back some post-crisis financial regulations.
The potential for financial deregulation advocated by the Trump administration prompted the most pointed opposition to Powell, a former executive at the Carlyle Group private equity firm whose credentials as Fed chair are rooted in his understanding of markets. Powell   whose monetary policy views are closely aligned with Yellen's.
He has served on the Fed's board since 2012 and over time became supportive of the consensus forged by Yellen for gradual interest rate increases and a slow decrease in the asset holdings the Fed accumulated while fighting the crisis, without abandoning a willingness to take extraordinary steps again if a crisis recurs.
 
He later came to see Yellen's go slow approach as important to helping the jobs market recover and to share her concerns that low inflation justified a cautious   raised interest rates three  
The Senate confirmation vote was originally 85-12, but Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein changed her vote to a "no." Aides to Feinstein were not immediately available to comment on the senator's decision. (Reporting by Howard Schneider; editing by Tim Ahmann and Clive McKeef)