Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Jill Marchant will be joining Hallmark as a corporate officer, serving as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary on Jan. 16. Marchant brings nearly three decades of legal, litigation and business experience across multiple industries, for both public and private companies. She most recently served as senior vice president and general counsel at Farm Credit Mid-America, Inc. in Louisville, Ky. Marchant replaces Brian Gardner, who is retiring from the company and will depart March 31.
Jill Marchant joins Hallmark as a corporate officer, serving as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary on Jan. 16. Marchant brings nearly three decades of legal, litigation and business experience across multiple industries, for both public and private companies.
“Jill brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise to this role, which will serve Hallmark well as we continue to drive our overall performance and focus on the success of our portfolio of businesses,” said Dave Hall, president of Hallmark Cards, Inc. “I look forward to Jill applying her great skills and experiences to lead Hallmark’s strong legal team.”
“I have long-admired Hallmark as a trusted company and an unparalleled brand,” said Marchant. “I believe the opportunities for Hallmark's businesses have never been greater, and I look forward to joining the company to do my part in helping to fulfill the vision of making a genuine difference in every life, every day.”
In this role, Marchant will be responsible for providing legal and business advice to Hallmark and its portfolio of businesses on a wide array of issues, including financing, contracts, litigation, acquisitions, mergers and other general corporate legal matters.
Prior to joining Hallmark, Marchant served as general counsel on the executive committee of Farm Credit Mid-America, impacting its $22 billion financial services cooperative. Marchant was also previously general counsel for Texas Roadhouse, advising executives and board of directors related to the company’s more than 400 restaurants, while leading a legal team of 20 attorneys, paralegals, specialists and administrative professionals. In addition, she has held leadership positions in the legal departments at Dine Equity, Applebee’s, and Honeywell.
Marchant earned her bachelor’s degree in English and her juris doctorate from Brigham Young University.
About Hallmark
For more than 100 years, family-owned Hallmark Cards, Inc. has been dedicated to creating a more emotionally connected world. Headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri and employing more than 28,000 worldwide, the approximately $4 billion company operates a diversified portfolio of businesses. Its global Hallmark Greetings business sells greeting cards and gift wrap in more than 30 languages with distribution in more than 100 countries and 100,000 rooftops. Hallmark Retail operates 2,000 Hallmark Gold Crown stores in five countries and Hallmark Home & Gifts sells a broad array of home décor and gift product throughout the U.S. Crayola® offers a wide range of art materials and toys designed to spark children’s creativity around the globe. Crown Media Family Networks operates three cable channels – Hallmark Channel, Hallmark Movies & Mysteries, and Hallmark Drama – in addition to Hallmark Publishing, the e-books division of the Hallmark channels, and Hallmark Movies Now, a subscription-based streaming service. Crown Center is a real estate development company that manages the 85-acre hotel, office, entertainment and residential campus surrounding Hallmark’s headquarters. For more information, visit Hallmark.com . Connect on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , Pinterest , LinkedIn and YouTube .
###
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4c4a1320-f575-4131-a7a0-53a2bbad5c1d
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/04802a7a-43c2-47af-a194-a49b105193b2
Andy DiOrio, APR Hallmark 816-545-0243 Andy.DiOrio@hallmark.com
Source: Hallmark