PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) announced today that it has promoted Todd Petersen to assistant vice president and associate actuary for Employee Benefits.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005040/en/
Todd Petersen, assistant vice president and associate actuary for Employee Benefits at The Standard. (Photo: Business Wire)
Petersen joined The Standard in 2006 as director and assistant actuary in Individual Disability Insurance and was later promoted to second vice president and associate actuary in 2012. Petersen moved to the Employee Benefits team in 2014. Prior to joining The Standard, Petersen held actuarial roles at Genworth Financial, Berkshire Life Insurance and Jackson National Life Insurance.
“Todd has successfully led the implementation of Embedded Value accounting for our employee benefits business and played a key role in the Voluntary products strategy,” said Foon Lew, vice president and group actuary at The Standard.
Petersen earned a Bachelor of Business Administration in actuarial science at the University of Wisconsin and a Master of Business Administration from Auburn University. He is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, Inc., StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005040/en/
The Standard
Bob Speltz, 971-321-3162
Director, Public Affairs
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard