 45pm EST Photos of the week 
People watch as fireworks explode over Copacabana beach during New Year celebrations in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. REUTERS/Lucas Landau Reuters / Sunday, December 31, 2017 People watch as fireworks explode over Copacabana beach during New Year celebrations in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. REUTERS/Lucas Landau Close 1 / 20 
A girl stands between binoculars that look towards the North, near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas in Paju, South Korea. REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 A girl stands between binoculars that look towards the North, near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas in Paju, South Korea. REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji Close 2 / 20 
A building covered in ice sits at the base of the Horseshoe Falls in Niagara Falls, Canada. REUTERS/Aaron Lynett Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 A building covered in ice sits at the base of the Horseshoe Falls in Niagara Falls, Canada. REUTERS/Aaron Lynett Close 3 / 20 
Alexander Conopoy reacts over the coffin of his daughter Alexandra Conopoy, a pregnant 18 year-old killed during an incident over scarce of pork, according to local media, in Charallave, Venezuela. REUTERS/Adriana Loureiro Reuters / Tuesday, January 02, 2018 Alexander Conopoy reacts over the coffin of his daughter Alexandra Conopoy, a pregnant 18 year-old killed during an incident over scarce of pork, according to local media, in Charallave, Venezuela. REUTERS/Adriana Loureiro Close 
A supermoon rises behind the fair tower ( Messeturm ) in Frankfurt, Germany. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach Reuters / Tuesday, January 02, 2018 A supermoon rises behind the fair tower ( Messeturm ) in Frankfurt, Germany. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach Close 5 / 20 
Family members of the victims of an apartment fire in Bronx mourn their relatives. REUTERS/Amr Alfiky Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 Family members of the victims of an apartment fire in Bronx mourn their relatives. REUTERS/Amr Alfiky Close 6 / 20 
A surfer rides a wave during the Punta Galea Big Wave Challenge in Punta Galea, Getxo, near Bilbao, Spain. REUTERS/Vincent West Reuters / Saturday, December 30, 2017 A surfer rides a wave during the Punta Galea Big Wave Challenge in Punta Galea, Getxo, near Bilbao, Spain. REUTERS/Vincent West Close 7 / 20 
Members of the Shembe faith (Nazareth Baptist Church), a religious hybrid of Christianity and African traditions, walk during their annual pilgrimage near Inanda, South Africa. REUTERS/Rogan Ward Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 Members of the Shembe faith (Nazareth Baptist Church), a religious hybrid of Christianity and African traditions, walk during their annual pilgrimage near Inanda, South Africa. REUTERS/Rogan Ward Close 8 / 20 
Stanley Jones, 49, eats a salami sandwich in his apartment where he lost everything he owned in the flood caused by tropical storm Harvey in Houston, Texas. Jones is a former Marine who suffers from epilepsy. His apartment which doesn't have a... more Reuters / Friday, December 29, 2017 Stanley Jones, 49, eats a salami sandwich in his apartment where he lost everything he owned in the flood caused by tropical storm Harvey in Houston, Texas. Jones is a former Marine who suffers from epilepsy. His apartment which doesn't have a working stove or toilet still has mold in it. Living on a fixed income has made it difficult for him to find another place to live. REUTERS/Chris Aluka Berry Close 9 / 20 
A young devotee grasps water while offering prayers on the bank of the Hanumante River during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Bhaktapur, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Reuters / Tuesday, January 02, 2018 A young devotee grasps water while offering prayers on the bank of the Hanumante River during the Swasthani Brata Katha festival in Bhaktapur, Nepal. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Close 10 / 20 
President Trump and first lady Melania Trump, with their son Barron, arrive for a New Year's Eve party at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Reuters / Monday, January 01,   and first lady Melania Trump, with their son Barron, arrive for a New Year's Eve party at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Close 11 / 20 
Rescue workers work at the scene after a bus crashed with a truck and careened off a cliff along a sharply curving highway north of Lima, Peru. REUTERS/Guadalupe Pardo Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 Rescue workers work at the scene after a bus crashed with a truck and careened off a cliff along a sharply curving highway north of Lima, Peru. REUTERS/Guadalupe Pardo Close 12 / 20 
A man gets ready backstage before performing in the 34th Cochin Carnival which is held annually to welcome the start of the New Year at Fort Kochi in the southern state of Kerala, India. REUTERS/Sivaram V Reuters / Monday, January 01, 2018 A man gets ready backstage before performing in the 34th Cochin Carnival which is held annually to welcome the start of the New Year at Fort Kochi in the southern state of Kerala, India. REUTERS/Sivaram V Close 
A 'supermoon' full moon is seen rising above the skyline of London.   Monday, January 01, 2018 A 'supermoon' full moon is seen rising above the skyline of London.   20 
A Palestinian woman rests at her house in Khan Younis refugee camp in the southern Gaza Strip. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 A Palestinian woman rests at her house in Khan Younis refugee camp in the southern Gaza Strip. REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa Close 15 / 20 
A family is caught in blowing sea foam on the Brittany coast   Saint-Guenole in western France. REUTERS/Mal Langsdon Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 A family is caught in blowing sea foam on the Brittany coast   Saint-Guenole in western France. REUTERS/Mal Langsdon Close 16 / 20 
A wounded rebel arrives in Daraa after evacuation from Beit Jann, in Daraa, Syria. REUTERS/ Alaa al Faqir Reuters / Saturday, December 30, 2017 A wounded rebel arrives in Daraa after evacuation from Beit Jann, in Daraa, Syria. REUTERS/ Alaa al Faqir Close 17 / 20 
Aisha Umaru (L) holds a basin of milk as Umari Usman Kaski holds up firewood at the Bakasi IDP camp, Maiduguri, Nigeria. REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde Reuters / Tuesday, January 02, 2018 Aisha Umaru (L) holds a basin of milk as Umari Usman Kaski holds up firewood at the Bakasi IDP camp, Maiduguri, Nigeria. REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde Close 18 / 20 
A South Korean government official checks the direct communications hotline to talk with the North Korean side at the border village of Panmunjom, South Korea. Yonhap via REUTERS Reuters / Wednesday, January 03, 2018 A South Korean government official checks the direct communications hotline to talk with the North Korean side at the border village of Panmunjom, South Korea. Yonhap via REUTERS Close 19 / 20 
A devotee lights a cigaret to a figure of Santa Muerte or The Saint of Death during the first prayer of the New Year at Tepito neighborhood in Mexico City. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril Reuters / Monday, January 01, 2018 A devotee lights a cigaret to a figure of Santa Muerte or The Saint of Death during the first prayer of the New Year at Tepito neighborhood in Mexico City. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril Close