PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Amino, the leading payments company for transparent digital advertising, today announced that Alec Greenberg has been hired as the Vice President, Partnerships for the company, based out of the company’s growing New York, NY office. Amino combines blockchain, advertising and payment technologies that bring transparency, trust and security to the entire digital advertising supply chain. Greenberg brings to Amino 18 years of relevant experience, and understands the importance of strong partnerships to drive progress in the industry. Greenberg will oversee the strategy and expansion of Amino’s partnership with technology companies across the digital landscape.
“Amino's unique offering, which combines blockchain advertising and payments technologies is at the center of the industry's most important conversations about transparency, security and trust,” said Alec Greenberg, VP Partnership at Amino. “I’m thrilled for the chance to collaborate with the leading advertising technology companies to make the important changes that will help ensure the long-term health of the industry.”
Greenberg brings a deep understanding of the challenges faced by advertising technology partners and the opportunities for their success and sustainability in the digital advertising network offered by Amino’s solution. He has been a leading voice for fighting industry fraud for many years. Before joining the Amino team, Greenberg was the VP of Demand at Sovrn, an adtech solution for publishers. Previously, he served as the VP of Media Operations at Dstillery, a data-driven marketing company for digital advertisers. There he lead fraud-fighting for the company and created early thought leadership that has shaped best practices that have since been adopted by many in the digital advertising ecosystem.
In addition to Greenberg, Amino is continuing to grow the team, adding several software engineers in the last month, and expecting additional new hires in the near future.
“Partnering and collaborating with the technology companies that power digital media is a critical component to the evolution of the media supply chain,” said Will Luttrell, CEO and Founder at Amino. “Alec has been at the center of driving the adoption of future-forward technologies and scaled partnerships throughout his career, and is perfectly positioned to succeed at this important role at Amino.”
About Amino SM
Amino combines the best of blockchain, advertising and payment technologies to bring transparency, integrity, and auditability to online advertising. With a founding team comprised of co-founders of Integral Ad Science, Monetate, and Sailthru, Amino lifts the shroud from the media supply chain and eliminates fraud, waste, and abuse, making the entire industry transparent and cost-effective. For more information, visit aminopay.com .
Amino, the Amino logo, Amino Payments, Amino Wallet, and Amino Ledger are service marks owned by Amino Payments, Inc. All other trade and service marks used are the property of their respective owners.
Press Contact:
Emily Riley
eriley@witstrategy.com
914-330-1128
Source: Amino