SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Gumas Advertising ( www.gumas.com ) today announced that Craig Alexander will assume the role of President of the agency and founder John Gumas will continue to oversee operations as CEO. Craig’s promotion to agency president will strengthen the agency’s position as the leader in Challenger Brand Marketing®, working with client companies seeking to take on larger, better-funded competitors.
Craig Alexander, newly named President of Gumas Advertising
Craig joined the agency seven years ago and prior to his promotion served as Senior Vice President, Client Services, for Gumas. In his new position as agency president, Craig will assume a more strategic role, opening new markets, identifying companies that can benefit from Gumas’ Challenger Brand Marketing approach, and working closely with current clients to expand current marketing programs.
“I am very excited about assuming this new role and leading the agency in its mission to help challenger brands win against larger, better-resourced competitors,” said Alexander. “This promotion also helps the agency lay the foundation for expansion, allowing us to bring in new clients and broaden our services to our current clients.”
“Craig has been a valuable asset to the Gumas team and this promotion recognizes his contribution to the agency, providing outstanding service to our current clients and bringing in new business,” said John Gumas, CEO of Gumas Advertising. “The reorganization of our executive team also will give the agency an opportunity to plan for the future, expanding our market reach by applying the same tools we use with our clients to build our own brand.”
Craig has more than 30 years of experience in advertising and marketing. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in broadcasting, advertising, and journalism from the University of Southern California.
About Gumas
Established in 1984, Gumas is a nationally recognized and award-winning full-service marketing agency specializing in developing integrated branding, advertising and interactive marketing campaigns. The firm specializes in Challenger Brand Marketing strategies that help clients identify what makes their value unique and capitalizing on those differentiators to effectively compete and win against better funded competitors.
For more information, visit www.gumas.com .
Contact:
Tom Woolf
Gumas Advertising
(415) 621-7575
twoolf@gumas.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/e549d0b8-e60a-418c-a916-8ce3dacc7d33
Source:Gumas Advertising