NEW HAVEN, Conn., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- PatientWisdom, Inc ., a digital health company with a suite of platforms that improve health and care by listening to patients, providers, and community members – individually and at scale – today announced that Patty Riskind has joined its board of directors . Patty is a healthcare entrepreneur with demonstrated success in the fields of patient experience and patient engagement. She brings more than 30 years of experience in selling digital health solutions, developing innovative products, streamlining operational processes, and achieving exponential growth with both small and large companies within the healthcare industry.
Yale New Haven Health, Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin, OSF HealthCare and other advanced health systems are using the company's digital platforms to improve patient and provider experience as well as keep pace with movements in consumerism and value-based care.
Patty currently serves as CEO of Blue Horse Ventures, a healthcare consulting and investment firm that assists technology companies with sales, marketing, business development and product differentiation. She is also a public board member of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). She was previously Chief Client Experience Officer at Press Ganey Associates, the world's largest provider of patient experience measurement, performance analytics, and strategic advisory solutions. Prior to Press Ganey, Patty founded PatientImpact LLC, an e-survey company that Press Ganey acquired in 2009. She has a Bachelor of Arts degree from Brown University and an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
"PatientWisdom is improving health and care by putting humanity back into healthcare. By arming providers with insights not only about a patient's health concerns but about their lives, care teams can better understand the patient as a person, making healing more meaningful and fulfilling while allowing patients to be heard," said Patty Riskind. "I am thrilled to serve on the company's board and help the organization fulfill its mission to enhance both patient and provider engagement."
"Bringing Patty Riskind onto the PatientWisdom, Inc. board of directors adds deep insight and immediate impact as we grow our business," said Gregory Makoul, CEO of Patient Wisdom, Inc. "Her unparalleled energy and industry expertise are tremendous assets to the company, enhancing our ability to provide the tools that health organizations need to transform health transactions into healing relationships."
About PatientWisdom, Inc.
PatientWisdom, Inc . offers a suite of digital platforms that improve health and care by listening to patients, providers, and community members – individually and at scale. The company is based in New Haven, CT and has three primary focus areas: making it easy to understand what matters to patients ahead of clinical encounters to improve patient experience and the delivery of care (PatientWisdom); obtaining real-time, real-world insights from clinicians and staff to enhance engagement, reduce burnout and streamline care (ProviderWisdom); and producing a deep view of the community to enable clear lines-of-sight for developing and connecting programs that people will use (CommunityWisdom). In 2017, the company was named Venture of the Year at the CT Entrepreneur Awards and Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin earned the Vizient Clinical Innovation Award for its approach to implementing the PatientWisdom digital platform.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patientwisdom-inc-appoints-patient-experience-expert-patty-riskind-to-board-of-directors-300589759.html
SOURCE PatientWisdom, Inc.