DOWNERS GROVE, Ill., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Executives from a broad cross-section of the global information technology (IT) industry will serve on the CompTIA Communities Executive Board in 2018, the leading technology industry association announced today.
The appointees include the chairs and vice chairs of CompTIA's member communities and public sector councils . Each of these groups is filled with experts and thought leaders from across the industry, including technology vendors, distributors and service and solution providers.
"More than 10,000 individuals are engaged in our communities and councils, giving us unprecedented insight into the day-to-day operations of the technology industry," said Nancy Hammervik, executive vice president, industry relations, CompTIA. "This visibility is vital as CompTIA helps to shape the future of an industry that's in midst of dynamic and profound changes impacting how business technology solutions are built, purchased and consumed."
Members of the CompTIA Communities Executive Board for 2018 include:
Advancing Diversity in Technology Community – Nathan Archer, A & H Technology Group; Aaron Woods, Xerox Corp. Advancing Women in Technology Community – Cristina Greysman, SAP America; Lori Jolley, AT&T. ANZ Channel Community – Karen Drewitt, The Missing Link; Nick Beaugeard, HubOne. Canadian IT Business Community – Mark Hardy, SYNNEX Corporation; Rick McCutcheon, Full Contact Selling. Future Leaders Community – Nate Teplow, Continuum; Victor Johnston, Johnston IT Consulting. IT Security Community – Ron Culler, Secure Designs, Inc.; Neal Bradbury, MSP Solutions by Barracuda. Managed Services Community – Charles Love, Mailprotector; Amy Hodge, ConnectWise. Technology Lifecycle Services Community – West McDonald, Print Audit; Sue Krautbauer, Flash Global. UK Channel Community – Janet O'Sullivan, StorageCraft Technology Corp.; Perry Ashby, Urban Network.
Other members of the Communities Executive Board are Raja Singh, Verizon Business, liaison from the CompTIA Board of Directors ; Stephen Cobb, ESET North America, liaison from the CompTIA Advisory Council on Policy ; Matthew Jones, Boeing Company, and Susan Nelson, Aerojet Rocketdyne, representing the CompTIA Space Enterprise Council ; John Stuhrenberg, AT&T, representing the CompTIA State and Local Government and Education Council ; and Paul Hencoski, KPMG LLP, Jacqueline Gombach, Captuva and Kim Shaver, Kim Shaver Consulting, from the Human Services Information Technology Advisory Group.
Additionally, CompTIA is establishing a new community on emerging technologies. It is expected to launch later this year.
Many of the member communities will gather in Chicago March 20 and 21 for the inaugural CompTIA Community Forum. Visit CompTIA Events for more information.
About CompTIA
The Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) is a leading voice and advocate for the $1.5 trillion U.S. information technology ecosystem; and the more than seven million technology professionals, who design, implement, manage, and safeguard the technology that powers the U.S. economy. Through education, training, certifications, advocacy, philanthropy, and market research, CompTIA is the hub for advancing the tech industry and its workforce. Visit www.comptia.org to learn more.
Contact:
Steven Ostrowski
CompTIA
sostrowski@comptia.org­
630-678-8468
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/it-industry-leaders-named-to-comptia-communities-executive-board-for-2018-300588998.html
SOURCE CompTIA