HAMILTON, Ontario, Jan. 11, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Venanpri Tools, the Hand Tools division of Venanpri Group and owner of the Bellota and Corona brands, announced today it has acquired Burgon & Ball Limited (“Burgon & Ball”). Burgon & Ball is a U.K.-based manufacturer and supplier of premium gardening, agricultural and giftware products. The terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Headquartered in Sheffield, England – where it can trace its roots back to 1730 – and supported by a sales and marketing office in Poole, Dorset, Burgon & Ball’s products are primarily sold through garden centres and other fine retailers in the U.K., Europe and other countries around the world.
“Burgon & Ball has a remarkable legacy and has built an impressive reputation based on its high-quality products and customer service, which has led to strong growth and established the company as a market-leader in many of its segments,” said Cristobal Valdes, President of Venanpri Tools. “We’re very excited to partner with the Burgon & Ball team to grow the company both domestically and internationally in the years to come.”
Heather Culpan, Managing Director of Burgon & Ball added, “The success of Burgon & Ball has been built on its commitment to the creation of design and function-led products with enhanced customer appeal and drawing on its Sheffield heritage. I am confident that the company will continue to progress through seizing new product and investment opportunities and synergy with the Corona and Bellota businesses.”
About Venanpri Group
Venanpri Group is a global organization with two divisions (Tools and AgriSolutions) and more than 1,400 employees.
Venanpri Tools produces and distributes thousands of manual hand tool products, including pruning tools, shovels, masonry trowels, machetes, files and hoes (among many others) for professional and consumer use in the agricultural, gardening, construction, and industrial segments. Venanpri Tools sells its products under the well-recognized brands of Bellota and Corona. Venanpri Tools sells in more than 80 countries and has manufacturing and distribution facilities in the U.S.A., Spain, Mexico, and Colombia; sales offices in more than 20 countries.
Venanpri AgriSolutions is the global market leader in the manufacturing of consumable wear components (including discs, coulters, sweeps, openers, tines, springs and blades) that are embedded into soil preparation and seeding implements such as plows, disc harrows, sugar cane harvesters, and planting/seeding machines. AgriSolutions’ products are high precision wear components, selling under widely recognized brands including Ingersoll, Bellota, Solbjerg and Rozalma as well as the brands of its OEM customers for both new equipment and the aftermarket.
For more information on Burgon & Ball, visit its website at www.burgonandball.com .
For further information:
Corona
Jim Wolf
Senior Vice President, Marketing and Sales
jim.wolf@corona.bellota.com
Source:Venanpri Group