DENVER, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- hrQ and Revolution Advisors announce today they have combined businesses forming one company. The human capital professional services firms will move forward operating under the hrQ banner and platform, led by managing partners Kha Lee, Molly McCoy, Kathy Rapp and Brian Wilkerson.
Combining the businesses integrates the human capital consulting strength of Revolution Advisors with the resourcing of HR professionals that hrQ is well known for. "This positions hrQ to help our clients get ahead of the curve when it comes to optimizing their people strategy," says McCoy. "Revolution Advisors are leading experts in talent strategy and workforce planning providing organizations with the blue print. We then support the implementation with on-demand HR and direct hire talent, often upgrading the organizations' HR capability," adds McCoy.
Brian Wilkerson noted, "Human capital is one of the last frontiers of transformation in organizations. Companies are facing a new set of workforce challenges while becoming increasingly reliant on top talent to successfully compete. Bringing together these firms allows us to help lead organizations through these challenges and into a future where talent on-demand and an optimized human capital supply chain are a reality."
With this combination, clients will receive the elevated level of innovation and excellence both firms have been known for over the years. Additionally, clients will benefit from an expanded set of capabilities to help organizations truly transform their people strategy.
About hrQ.
hrQ works with organizations to simplify the people equation. Focus areas include talent strategy, workforce planning, organization design and program management, in addition to supplying exceptional on-demand HR talent and executive search for key HR hires. With offices in Atlanta, Austin, Dallas, Denver, Houston and San Francisco, hrQ serves hundreds of great companies across North America. Visit the hrQ website to learn more: www.hrQinc.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hrq-and-revolution-advisors-join-forces-300587578.html
SOURCE hrQ