STEVENSON, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The securities litigation law firm of Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation, announces that a class action lawsuit has been commenced in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee on behalf of purchasers of Tivity Health, Inc. (NASDAQ: TVTY) (“Tivity” or the “Company”) securities during the period between February 24, 2017 and November 3, 2017, inclusive (the “Class Period”). Investors who wish to become proactively involved in the litigation have until January 19, 2018 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff.
If you wish to choose counsel to represent you and the class, you must apply to be appointed lead plaintiff and be selected by the Court. The lead plaintiff will direct the litigation and participate in important decisions including whether to accept a settlement for the class in the action. The lead plaintiff will be selected from among applicants claiming the largest loss from investment in Tivity securities during the Class Period. Members of the class will be represented by the lead plaintiff and counsel chosen by the lead plaintiff. No class has yet been certified in the above action.
The complaint accuses the defendants of violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by virtue of the defendants’ failure to disclose during the Class Period that Tivity was aware that its customer, United Healthcare, Inc. (“United Healthcare”), planned to expand its fitness benefit to seniors and the expansion would represent direct competition to Tivity’s core program SilverSneaker.
According to the complaint, following a November 6, 2017 press release from United Healthcare announcing expansion of its fitness benefits, the value of Tivity shares declined significantly.
If you have suffered a loss in excess of $100,000 from investment in Tivity securities purchased on or after February 24, 2017 and held through the revelation of negative information during and/or at the end of the Class Period and would like to learn more about this lawsuit and your ability to participate as a lead plaintiff, without cost or obligation to you, please visit our website at http://www.browerpiven.com/casesandinvestigations.html . You may also request more information by contacting Brower Piven either by email at hoffman@browerpiven.com or by telephone at (410) 415-6616.
Attorneys at Brower Piven have extensive experience in litigating securities and other class action cases and have been advocating for the rights of shareholders since the 1980s. If you choose to retain counsel, you may retain Brower Piven without financial obligation or cost to you, or you may retain other counsel of your choice. You need take no action at this time to be a member of the class.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006659/en/
Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation
Charles J. Piven, 410-415-6616
1925 Old Valley Road
Stevenson, Maryland 21153
hoffman@browerpiven.com
Source: Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation