Ecolab expands its U.S. institutional market water treatment presence
ST. PAUL, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Ecolab Inc., the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services, has acquired Cascade Water Services, Inc. Cascade Water Services is a privately held company based in New York that provides water treatment programs and services to the U.S. institutional market, primarily in New York and Florida. Sales were approximately $35 million in 2017. The company will become part of Ecolab’s Water business. No further details were disclosed.
“As commercial building, lodging and healthcare facilities continue to expand, the demand for experts who can bring effective solutions to our customers’ water-related challenges has increased. These challenges include increasing concerns regarding Legionnaires’ disease,” said Michael Johannsen, executive vice president and general manager, Nalco Water Global Light Industries & Water Services. “We offer our customers programs to manage their water efficiently and safely. Cascade’s people and technologies complement Ecolab’s existing Water business well and will enable us to provide their customers our broader range of water treatment services to support their growth and success.”
About Ecolab
A trusted partner at more than one million customer locations, Ecolab (ECL) is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that protect people and vital resources. With 2016 sales of $13 billion and 48,000 associates, Ecolab delivers comprehensive solutions and on-site service to promote safe food, maintain clean environments, optimize water and energy use and improve operational efficiencies for customers in the food, healthcare, energy, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. For more Ecolab news and information, visit www.ecolab.com .
Follow us on Twitter @ecolab , Facebook at facebook.com/ecolab , LinkedIn at Ecolab or Instagram at Ecolab Inc .
(ECL-A)
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005750/en/
Ecolab Inc.
www.ecolab.com
Michael Monahan, 651-250-2809
or
Andrew Hedberg, 651-250-2185
Source: Ecolab Inc.