HOLLYWOOD, Fla., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hard Rock International, with an expanding global network of hotels and casinos, announces the promotion of Jeffrey Hook as executive vice president of development and marketing. In his new position, Hook will be responsible for the global development of Hard Rock Casinos outside of the Asian continent, where the company's CEO of Asia, Ed Tracy, will continue to be responsible for casino development.
Hook was most recently senior vice president of business development and marketing for Hard Rock International. Hook's promotion was announced by Hard Rock International Chairman, Jim Allen, who applauded his accomplishments in expanding the Hard Rock Casino brand.
In 2008, Hook joined Seminole Gaming as senior vice president of marketing, with overall marketing responsibility for the Seminole Hard Rock Hotels & Casinos in Hollywood and Tampa, Fla., as well as other Seminole casinos in Florida. Seminole Gaming manages the gaming operation of the Seminole Tribe of Florida, which purchased Hard Rock International in 2007.
His 23 years of experience in the gaming industry have included leadership positions at MGM, Boyd Gaming and Harrah's Entertainment.
Hook is a graduate of the University of Kansas in Lawrence with a Bachelor of Science degree in Journalism.
Hard Rock International
With venues in 75 countries, including 180 cafes, 24 hotels and 11 casinos, Hard Rock International (HRI) is one of the most globally recognized companies. Beginning with an Eric Clapton guitar, Hard Rock owns the world's greatest collection of music memorabilia, which is displayed at its locations around the globe. Hard Rock is also known for its collectible fashion and music-related merchandise, Hard Rock Live performance venues and an award-winning website. HRI owns the global trademark for all Hard Rock brands. The company owns, operates and franchises Cafes in iconic cities including London, New York, San Francisco, Sydney and Dubai. HRI also owns, licenses and/or manages hotel/casino properties worldwide. Destinations include the company's two most successful Hotel and Casino properties in Tampa and Hollywood, FL., both owned and operated by HRI parent company The Seminole Tribe of Florida, as well as other exciting locations including Bali, Cancun, Ibiza, Las Vegas, and San Diego. Upcoming new Hard Rock Cafe locations include St. Petersburg, Cairo, Wroclaw and Chengdu. New Hard Rock hotel, casino or hotel-casino projects include Atlanta, Atlantic City, Berlin, Budapest, London, Los Cabos, Maldives, New York City, Ottawa, Dalian and Haikou in China. For more information on Hard Rock International, visit www.hardrock.com .
FOR MORE MEDIA INFORMATION:
JILL TRUDEAU / ERIN OWENS
THE ZIMMERMAN AGENCY – 850.668.2222
HARDROCK-PR@ZIMMERMAN.COM
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hard-rock-international-appoints-jeffrey-hook-executive-vice-president-of-development-and-marketing-300589178.html
SOURCE Hard Rock International