OAKLAND, Calif., CoSo Cloud LLC , the leading private cloud managed services provider for secure virtual classroom training and web conferencing, today announced it has added former Adobe Connect principal Product Manager and virtual training thought leader Randah McKinnie to its world-class management team as the new Head of Product.
"We could not have found a more qualified or ideal leader than Randah McKinnie to complete the CoSo senior management team and drive CoSo's total product and service innovation," said Glen D. Vondrick, General Manager, CoSo Cloud. "Randah is a widely known and respected innovator who will lead CoSo's product development investment to deliver more solutions that will translate into powerful enablers to protect, secure, and ensure high-consequence virtual training and web conferencing for our customers."
At CoSo Cloud, Randah is tasked with driving the company's product management efforts, helping to define, track and manage all of the CoSo product and service offering strategies that will expand upon the company's flagship CoSo Secure Private Cloud platform.
Randah brings 20+ years of software, operating system and network architecture experience to CoSo Cloud. Previously, she spent 12 years at Adobe in product management, leading Adobe Connect and AEM Communities product innovation in close partnership with the field, customers, and engineering. There, she conceived and brought to market numerous innovative eLearning and real-time collaboration offerings, including the first and best-in-market mobile-enabled virtual classroom and an enterprise social learning management platform. Randah has also recently held leadership positions at Intuit and the Royal Bank of Canada where she drove product, thought leadership and innovation.
"I am impressed with the growth of the CoSo Cloud business and excited about the added investments AASKI is making to help CoSo execute on a breakthrough strategy in the future," said Randah McKinnie, newly-named Head of Product at CoSo Cloud. "I'm looking forward to working with the highly talented development team at CoSo Cloud to deliver the innovative software solutions that are needed by organizations whose high-consequence virtual training and collaboration have come increasingly under attack."
Randah joins and rounds out the CoSo senior leadership team, which also recently added 20+ year enterprise sales veteran Jim Seaman as Chief Sales Executive to lead the company's Direct, OEM, and VAR sales teams. The company also expanded its Federal Government sales and support team in the Washington, D.C. area while adding experienced major account sales presence in the Northeast corridor.
About CoSo Cloud
CoSo Cloud is a trusted private cloud managed services provider for businesses and government agencies that require the highest reliability and security for their high-consequence virtual training and web conferencing. The CoSo Cloud platform meets or exceeds most security and regulatory compliance requirements for SOC 2+, HIPAA, HITRUST and FedRAMP. Citigroup, FEMA, General Motors, General Services Administration, KPMG, Raytheon and the Transportation Security Administration are among the many customers relying on CoSo Cloud for high reliability and protection of their sensitive data. CoSo Cloud is an authorized Adobe Connect Gold partner and wholly owned AASKI Technology company. For more information about CoSo, visit: http://cosocloud.com .
Contact: Chris Blake
415-989-9000
chris@msrcommunications.com
 : releases/coso-cloud-appoints-randah-mckinnie-to-senior-management-team-300584822.html
SOURCE CoSo Cloud