NEW YORK, Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nasdaq (Nasdaq:NDAQ) today reported monthly volumes for December 2017, as well as quarterly volumes, number of listings and estimated revenue capture for the quarter ending December 31, 2017, on its investor relations website.
A data sheet showing the monthly volumes and quarterly number of listings and capture rates can be found at: http://ir.nasdaq.com/monthly-reporting/
About Nasdaq
Nasdaq (Nasdaq:NDAQ) is a leading global provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, listing, information and public company services. Through its diverse portfolio of solutions, Nasdaq enables customers to plan, optimize and execute their business vision with confidence, using proven technologies that provide transparency and insight for navigating today's global capital markets. As the creator of the world's first electronic stock market, its technology powers more than 90 marketplaces in 50 countries, and 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Nasdaq is home to approximately 3,900 total listings with a market value of approximately $12 trillion. To learn more, visit business.nasdaq.com .
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Nasdaq cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such include, but are not limited to (i) projections relating to our future financial results, total shareholder returns, growth, trading volumes, products and services, order backlog, taxes and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the closing or implementation dates and benefits of certain acquisitions and other strategic, restructuring, technology, de-leveraging and capital return initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions, (iv) statements relating to any litigation or regulatory or government investigation or action to which we are or could become a party, and (v) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond Nasdaq’s control. These factors include, but are not limited to, Nasdaq’s ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in Nasdaq’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on Nasdaq’s investor relations website at http://ir.nasdaq.com and the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov . Nasdaq undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Contact Media Relations :
Allan Schoenberg+1.212.231.5534
Allan.Schoenberg@Nasdaq.com
Contact Investor Relations :
Ed Ditmire, CFA +1.212.401.8737
Ed.Ditmire@Nasdaq.com
NDAQF
Source:Nasdaq, Inc.