HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. (NYSE: PAA ) and Plains GP Holdings (NYSE: PAGP ) announced they will release fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 earnings after market close on Tuesday, February 6, 2018 and will hold the following joint webcast:
What: Fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 earnings webcast
When: Wednesday, February 7, 2018 11:00 a.m. ET; 10:00 a.m. CT
Where : www.plainsallamerican.com or https://event.webcasts.com/starthere.jsp?ei=1176062&tp
How : Live over the internet – log on at either of the addresses above
Specific items to be addressed in this call include:
1. PAA's fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 performance;
2. Financial and operating guidance for the full year of 2018;
3. Capitalization and liquidity; and
4. PAA and PAGP’s outlook for the future.
The slide presentation accompanying the conference call materials will be posted a few minutes prior to the call at www.plainsallamerican.com under the “Investor Relations” sections of the website (Navigate to: Investor Relations/ either “PAA” or “PAGP”/ News & Events/ Quarterly Earnings).
An audio replay in MP3 format will be available within two hours after the end of the call. A transcript will also be available after the call at the above referenced website.
Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. is a publicly traded master limited partnership that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and provides logistics services for crude oil, natural gas liquids ("NGL"), and natural gas. PAA owns an extensive network of pipeline transportation, terminalling, storage and gathering assets in key crude oil and NGL producing basins and transportation corridors and at major market hubs in the United States and Canada. On average, PAA handles over 5 million barrels per day of crude oil and NGL in its Transportation segment. PAA is headquartered in Houston, Texas. More information is available at www.plainsallamerican.com .
PAGP is a publicly traded entity that owns a non-economic controlling interest in the general partner of PAA and an indirect limited partner interest in PAA, one of the largest energy infrastructure and logistics companies in North America. PAGP is headquartered in Houston, Texas.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006844/en/
Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. and Plains GP Holdings
Brett Magill, (866) 809-1291
Manager, Investor Relations
Source: Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. and Plains GP Holdings