Eyelit achieved the highest revenue quarter in company history with over 60% top-line growth
TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Eyelit Inc. announced an all-time record revenue for the third quarter of 2017. Eyelit’s revenue grew in all key business segments, led by services revenue which more than doubled from the 3 rd quarter of 2016.
Eyelit’s 3 rd quarter growth was driven by Enterprise customers with active Eyelit deployment projects in North America, Europe and Asia. During this quarter Eyelit’s recurring revenue grew by over 15%, and software license revenue grew by over 70%.
For the first nine months of the year, top-line revenue grew over 45% year-over-year, and Eyelit realized growth in all in all aspects of the business. For the same period, year-over-year recurring revenue grew by over 20%, software license revenue more than doubled, and services revenue grew by nearly 50%.
“We are very happy with our 3 rd quarter results; we achieved a new quarterly revenue high with over 60% growth. We project our full-year revenue growth for 2017 to exceed 50%. We are seeing this revenue growth globally, and we are adding to our team to support the global demand for Eyelit’s products and services,” stated Dan Estrada, Vice-President of Sales and Marketing, Eyelit.
About Eyelit Inc. ( www.eyelit.com )
Eyelit Inc. is the leader in Manufacturing Execution and Quality Management (MES and QMS) solutions for visibility, control, and coordination of manufacturing operations for the aerospace & defense, electronics, life sciences, medical device, semiconductor, and solar industries. Eyelit uniquely delivers a broad set of manufacturing solutions, including Asset Management (Semi E10, SEMI PV2-0709), Dispatching, Factory Integration (Automation), Manufacturing Execution (MES/MOM), Recipe Management, Supply Chain Management, Quality Management (CAPA/OCAP/SPC/APC/RMA), and Business Process Management, that enable its customers to rapidly and cost-effectively optimize production and company processes.
With exceptional customer service, Eyelit has time and again proven that superior, innovative technology can maximize efficiency and value. More than 50 leading companies, including Ascent Solar, austriamicrosystems, CEA-Leti, CEITEC, eMagin, FLIR Systems, Innovative Micro Technology (IMT), Kionix, LFoundry, Mellanox, Murata Electronics Oy, Northrop Grumman Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, PerkinElmer, Raytheon Company, Skyworks Solutions, TowerJazz, TPSCo, and X-FAB Silicon Foundries rely on Eyelit as a trusted software partner. Follow Eyelit on LinkedIn and Twitter .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180130005943/en/
Eyelit Inc.
Kiran Chattha, +1-905-502-6184
info@eyelit.com
Source: Eyelit Inc.