IRVING, Texas, Jan. 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- HD Vest Financial Services ® , the pioneer of tax-smart wealth management services, announces that Crystal Clifford, who has more than 25 years of experience working in the financial services industry, has joined the firm as Chief Operating Officer.
"As our network continues to grow, Crystal will work closely with our teams to ensure all advisors that partner with us receive the customized resources and support that they need," said Bob Oros, CEO of HD Vest Financial Services . "Crystal's vast experience managing operations and technology for large financial services organizations will help us further streamline our platform and expand in a scalable manner."
Ms. Clifford is based in HD Vest's Irving headquarters and reports to Mr. Oros. She is responsible for overseeing brokerage operations, administration, compliance, technology, servicing, partner support, and trading units across the organization.
Ms. Clifford was most recently Senior Vice President of Technology at LPL Financial, where she led the Risk & Regulatory technology group responsible for the firm's anti-money laundering, compliance, and surveillance platforms. In that role, she also supervised product strategy, software application development, and the delivery of technology to financial advisors and internal business partners. Ms. Clifford became Senior Vice President of Technology following two years at the helm of LPL Financial's Product Management organization, where she focused on home office and corporate systems. Prior to that position, Ms. Clifford led multiple departments in LPL Financial's Operations, Trading & Service organization over the course of 12 years.
"HD Vest has a long history of closely collaborating with independent advisors across the country and empowering them to achieve their long-term goals," said Ms. Clifford . "I am proud to be able to play a key role in continuing to deliver services and support to the HD Vest network, and enabling all HD Vest advisors to optimize and grow their advisory practices."
Before Ms. Clifford joined LPL Financial in 1999, she held various roles, including Assistant Vice President of Accounting at Scripps Bank. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from San Diego State University.
About HD Vest Financial Services
Since its inception in 1983, HD Vest Financial Services ® has supported an independent network of tax professionals and financial advisors who provide comprehensive financial services, including planning, securities, insurance, money management services, and banking solutions. The firm has over 4,400 independent advisors, who manage over $40 billion in assets for individuals, families and small businesses in all 50 states i . HD Vest Investment Services is ranked as one of the top 15 independent broker-dealer firms ii . To learn more about HD Vest, a business of Blucora, Inc. (NASDAQ: BCOR), visit www.hdvest.com .
i As of March 31, 2017.
ii ThinkAdvisor 2016 Broker-Dealer Reference Guide, which measured/ranked the top 25 independent broker-dealers by annual revenue.
HD Vest Financial Services® is the holding company for the group of companies providing financial services under the HD Vest name.
Securities offered through H.D. Vest Investment Services SM , Member SIPC, Advisory services offered through H.D. Vest Advisory Services SM , 6333 N. State Highway 161, Fourth Floor, Irving, TX 75038, 972-870-6000
Media Contact:
Dana Taormina
JConnelly
(973) 850-7305
hdvest@jconnelly.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/financial-industry-veteran-crystal-clifford-joins-hd-vest-as-coo-300584557.html
SOURCE HD Vest Financial Services