0 COMMENTS Good morning. Spike TV rebrands to The Paramount Network on Thursday, but Viacom’s edgy cable network didn’t leave quietly. The farewell campaign saw the Paramount Network hosting a live video to destroy the Spike TV logo using all manner of weapons. Meanwhile, Spike TV’s Twitter account went rogue (stage-managed by its social media agency, of course), lambasting the decision and ripping into the channel’s former programming, earning this delightful AV Club headline : “We regret to inform you that Spike TV is being funny on Twitter.”
The Basketball Diaries Verizon is looking to pitch itself as the “first screen that customers go to for sports,” according to Brian Angiolet, the company’s senior vice president and global chief media and content officer. The cornerstone of that effort is Verizon’s expanded deal with the NBA , announced Wednesday, alongside its rights for some NFL games and soccer matches, WSJ reports. Verizon will now offer the NBA’s season “League Pass” on all its platforms via Yahoo Sports, in addition to its go90 platform, which comes complete with ad inventory to sell. There’ll also be complementary original programming and a more enhanced fantasy basketball offer. Verizon and Yahoo are also investing $25 million in a new technology fund to create new fan viewing experiences. You don’t need me to tell you that sports drive big audiences, and viewership for the NBA is up 21% this season, which could help Verizon command some hefty ad rates. Verizon is not only hoping to grow its audience numbers with this deal; the company hopes to change the way people watch sports—such as through virtual reality and augmented-reality fan experiences—which could throw up some creative ad opportunities for its Oath unit.
You Got to Have Trans-paren-cy If You Wanna Be With Me I moderated a lively panel during Advertising Week New York in which MDC Media Partners and Assembly CEO Martin Cass slammed the lack of trust between marketers and agencies , saying the big five holding companies needed to “get their act cleaned up” and solve the transparency issue created by “arbitrage.” He’s talked the talk, now Mr. Cass is walking the walk. CMO Today’s Alex Bruell reports Assembly has agreed to pay for its ad-buying clients to use a product from technology consultancy AdFin . It helps marketers to see how much their digital ad inventory costs and verify the agency didn’t mark up prices to squeeze out some extra profit. Separately on Thursday, Adobe Advertising Cloud and AppNexus said they’d lift the lid on their fees , following Sizmek, which announced a similar initiative earlier this month. Expect more transparency-as-a-feature announcements across the sector this year as marketers demand more clarity on what they’re actually paying for.
We’ve Been Dancing With Ms. Redstone The wave of Big Media consolidation last year looks set to roll into 2018. WSJ’s Keach Hagey and Joe Flint report that Shari Redstone, vice chairman of CBS and Viacom, is looking for some governance changes at CBS as she renews her push to merge the two companies —potentially as soon as this quarter. Ms. Redstone is said to be hunting for new names to sit on the board of CBS and is dissatisfied with current succession planning at the company. CBS Chief Executive Leslie Moonves has resisted a merger with Viacom. But in a world where media companies are bulking up (Disney-Fox, Discovery-Scripps, and possibly AT&T-Time Warner), Ms. Redstone sees an urgent need for scale. From an advertising perspective, reuniting Viacom and CBS would give the combined company the ability to sell broadcast and cable network packages in the annual upfronts. Plus, Viacom could bring CBS more international reach and help it become more sophisticated in data-driven ad targeting. Meanwhile, fears of Viacom’s channels being dropped from cable packages would subside once CBS’s prime-time programming and sports (especially NFL football) are part of the equation.
The Tide is High Have you tried the Tide pod challenge* yet? The viral trend, where people upload videos of themselves eating the laundry detergent, has become something of a pain for Procter & Gamble —and presumably a nasty, sharp internal pain for the participants. The company said earlier this week it’s working with social media platforms “to remove harmful content that is not consistent with their policies.” YouTube released a statement Wednesda y that didn’t directly reference the Tide pod challenge, but said its guidelines prohibit content that’s “intended to encourage dangerous activities that have an inherent risk of physical harm.” *This newsletter does not endorse or encourage the ingestion of potentially toxic, definitely disgusting laundry pods. If you were even slightly considering it, watch this PSA from Tide and Rob Gronkowski . Everything’s a marketing opportunity.
Best of the rest Keanu Reeves will star in Squarespace’s fifth consecutive Super Bowl ad. [ Adweek ]
Doritos and Mountain Dew will partner to air a 60-second spot during the Super Bowl, starring actors Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage. [ Adweek ]
Online mattress retailer Casper has hired Jeff Brooks, most recently global president and chief marketing officer at digital advertising firm Huge, as its new chief marketing officer. [ CMO Today ]
Facebook has begun testing a new feature called Watch Party that lets people watch videos at the same time with friends. [ Recode ]
Google will start factoring in page load speed as a ranking factor for mobile searches. [ Google Webmaster Central Blog ]
Magazine publisher Bonnier is shutting down five of its titles and has laid off 70 staff in the U.S. [ Recode ]
NowThis, the social publisher owned by Group Nine Media that shut down its website in 2015 to only publish on social platforms, has brought its website back again. [ Business Insider ]
HuffPost is ending its unpaid contributor program. [ New York Times ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.o'reilly@wsj.com