DALLAS, - Ryan, a leading global tax services and software provider, has acquired Scott B. Retzloff & Associates, a commercial real estate property tax consulting firm based in San Antonio, Texas. This strategic acquisition adds more than 300 property tax clients and positions Ryan as the leading property tax provider in the Austin-San Antonio, Texas corridor. The deal adds a team of talented commercial property tax professionals, including Scott Retzloff, who will assume a role on the senior leadership team as Principal. Integrating Scott B. Retzloff & Associates into Ryan's existing Southwest Commercial Property Tax group solidifies the Firm's dominance in the Texas commercial property tax services industry and extends the Firm's national market leadership position in property tax consulting.
"We are excited to have the talented professionals of Scott B. Retzloff & Associates join our Commercial Property Tax team as we execute our aggressive growth strategy," said Shane Moncrief, Principal and Commercial Property Tax Practice Leader. "Our shared technical expertise and commitment to client service excellence and results will benefit our newly combined portfolios of premier commercial real estate clients."
"We are excited to join the industry leader in property tax services and look forward to delivering our new and existing clients even higher levels of value and results," said Scott Retzloff, owner of Scott B. Retzloff & Associates.
"This acquisition supports our strategic growth plan to strengthen our commercial property tax market leadership position across every region of North America and beyond," said G. Brint Ryan, Chairman and CEO of Ryan. "The client-centric philosophy and exceptional talent of the Scott B. Retzloff & Associates team of tax professionals will add tremendous value to our Commercial Real Estate Property Tax practice and the thousands of clients that they serve."
About Ryan
Ryan, an award-winning global tax services and software provider, is the largest Firm in the world dedicated exclusively to business taxes. The Firm provides an integrated suite of federal, state, local, and international tax services on a multi-jurisdictional basis, including tax recovery, consulting, advocacy, compliance, and technology services. Ryan is a five-time recipient of the International Service Excellence Award from the Customer Service Institute of America (CSIA) for its commitment to world-class client service. Empowered by the dynamic myRyan work environment, which is widely recognized as the most innovative in the tax services industry, Ryan's multi-disciplinary team of more than 2,100 professionals and associates serves over 14,000 clients in more than 45 countries, including many of the world's most prominent Global 5000 companies. More information about Ryan can be found at ryan.com . "Ryan" and "Firm" refer to the global organizational network, and may refer to one or more of the member firms of Ryan International, each of which is a separate legal entity.
PRESS INFORMATION CONTACT
Jim Aubele
SVP, Chief Marketing Officer
Ryan
972.934.0022
jim.aubele@ryan.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ryan-acquires-scott-b-retzloff--associates-300580747.html
SOURCE Ryan