LONDON, Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via OTC PR Wire -- DNA Dynamics, Inc. (USOTC:DNAD) announces today that its UK Subsidiary, DNA Interactive Games Limited, has closed on their recently announced Bitcoin ATM Patent acquisition as referenced in the OTC Markets supplemental filing available from http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/DNAD/filings
Such is the value of the patent, the contract called for a substantial initial down payment and further payments for up to a period of five years, with an option to complete the full transfer of title earlier for a discounted figure. That initial payment has now been made and the contract has been executed by both parties.
DNA will immediately begin implementing the next phase of its growth initiatives to start marketing and developing the patent technology. DNA has begun contacting bitcoin ATM manufacturers and operators and working with them to license the use of the patented technology for ongoing royalty payments.
CEO Carl Grant summarizes as follows: "Management has begun exploring strategies to begin creating revenue from our Bitcoin ATM Patent. We plan to explore potential acquisitions of already established ATM distribution companies as part of this strategy. I look forward to keeping our growing shareholder base informed on progress made regarding licensing, royalty revenue and potential acquisitions in the Bitcoin payment processing space in due course."
About DNA Dynamics, Inc.
Headquartered in Grandville, Michigan, and with operations in the UK, DNA Dynamics' business focuses building a sustainable and stable Crypto-currency ecosystem.
For more information please email info@dnadynamicsinc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including information about management's view of DNA Dynamics, Inc.'s future expectations, plans and prospects. In particular, when used in the preceding discussion, the words "believes," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," or "may," and similar conditional expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any statements made in this news release other than those of historical fact, about an action, event or development, are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the results of DNA Dynamics, its subsidiaries and concepts to be materially different than those expressed or implied in such statements. Unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on DNA Dynamics' future results. The forward-looking statements included in this press release are made only as of the date hereof. DNA Dynamics cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Finally, DNA Dynamics undertakes no obligation to update these statements after the date of this release, except as required by law, and also takes no obligation to update or correct information prepared by third parties that are not paid for by DNA Dynamics.
Sincerely,
Carl Grant.
President
DNA Dynamics, Inc.
2885 Sanford Ave SW #41437
Granville, MI.
49418
Source:DNA Dynamics, Inc.