NEW YORK, Jan. 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Attorney Advertising -- Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC notifies investors that a class action lawsuit has been filed against Tesaro, Inc. ("Tesaro" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: TSRO) and certain of its officers, on behalf of shareholders who purchased Tesaro securities during the period between March 14, 2016 and January 12, 2018, both dates inclusive (the "Class Period"). Such investors are encouraged to join this case by visiting the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/tsro .
This class action seeks to recover damages against Defendants for alleged violations of the federal securities laws under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The complaint alleges that throughout the Class Period defendants made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (1) substantial undisclosed health risks, including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock, were associated with TESARO's intravenous formulation of Varubi; and (2) consequently, TESARO's shares traded at artificially inflated prices during the Class Period.
On January 12, 2018, Tesaro announced that it had updated the U.S. labeling for Varubi (rolapitant), indicated for the prevention of delayed nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy, after receiving reports of "[a]naphylaxis, anaphylactic shock and other serious hypersensitivity reactions . . . in the postmarketing setting, some requiring hospitalization." The Company further stated that it "has issued a Dear Healthcare Professional (DHCP) letter."
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to review a copy of the Complaint you can visit the firm's site: http://www.bgandg.com/tsro or you may contact Peretz Bronstein, Esq. or his Investor Relations Analyst, Yael Hurwitz of Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC at 212-697-6484. If you suffered a loss in Tesaro you have until March 19, 2018 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff.
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC is a corporate litigation boutique. Our primary expertise is the aggressive pursuit of litigation claims on behalf of our clients. In addition to representing institutions and other investor plaintiffs in class action security litigation, the firm's expertise includes general corporate and commercial litigation, as well as securities arbitration. Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes.
Contact:
Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC
Peretz Bronstein or Yael Hurwitz
212-697-6484 | info@bgandg.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/shareholder-alert---bronstein-gewirtz--grossman-llc-notifies-investors-of-class-action-against-tesaro-inc-tsro-and-lead-plaintiff-deadline-march-19-2018-300585370.html
SOURCE Bronstein, Gewirtz & Grossman, LLC