TAMPA, Fla., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kforce Inc. (NASDAQ:KFRC), a provider of professional staffing services and solutions, on Tuesday, February 6, 2018 will release fourth quarter results post-market and host a conference call to discuss the results. The call will begin at 5:00 p.m. ET. The dial-in number is (877) 344-3890. The conference passcode is Kforce. The replay of the call will be available from 8:00 p.m. ET Tuesday, February 6, 2018 until February 13, 2018 by dialing (855) 859-2056, passcode 9398667.
This call is being webcast by Shareholder.com and can be accessed at Kforce’s web site at http://investor.kforce.com . The webcast replay will be available until February 13, 2018.
About Kforce
Kforce (Nasdaq:KFRC) is a professional staffing and solutions firm providing temporary and permanent staffing solutions in the skill areas of technology and finance & accounting. Backed by nearly 2,600 associates and over 11,000 consultants on assignment, Kforce is committed to “Great People = Great Results” for our valued clients and consultants. Kforce operates with 60 offices located throughout the United States. For more information, please visit our Web site at http://www.kforce.com .
Certain of the above statements contained in this press release, including earnings projections, are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: business conditions, growth in temporary staffing and the general economy; competitive factors, risks due to shifts in the market demand; a reduction in the supply of candidates or the Firm's ability to attract such candidates; the success of the Firm in attracting and retaining revenue-generating talent; changes in the service mix; ability of the Firm to repurchase shares; the effect of adverse weather conditions; changes in our effective tax rate; changes in government regulations, laws and policies that are adverse to our businesses; risk of contract performance, delays or termination or the failure to obtain awards, task orders or funding under contracts; changes in client demand; and the risk factors listed from time to time in the Firm’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Firm’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, as well as assumptions regarding the foregoing. In particular, the Firm makes no assurances that the estimates of continuing operations will be achieved or that we will continue to increase our market share, successfully manage risks to our revenue stream, successfully put into place the people and processes that will create future success or further accelerate our revenue. The terms “should,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “foresee,” “plan” and similar expressions and variations thereof contained in this press release identify certain of such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. As a result, such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Future events and actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and the Firm undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
AT THE FIRM
Michael Blackman
Chief Corporate Development Officer
(813) 552-2927
Source:Kforce, Inc.