NEW YORK, January 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on IGC, CMC, WOR, and LTBR which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . Today's pre-market research on WallStEquities.com is centered on the performance of India Globalization Capital Inc. (NYSE AMER: IGC), Commercial Metals Co. (NYSE: CMC), Worthington Industries Inc. (NYSE: WOR), and Lightbridge Corp. (NASDAQ: LTBR). On January 11 th , 2018, Charles Schwab gave the Basic Materials sector a "Market Perform" rating, stating that the commodity price declines seen over the past couple of years may be ending, with global monetary policies helping to arrest the fall. However, rapid gains in commodity prices seem unlikely at this point, and a tightening Fed gives caution. All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below.
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
India Globalization Capital
On Wednesday, shares in Maryland-based India Globalization Capital Inc. recorded a trading volume of 613,920 shares. The stock ended the session 1.98% lower at $0.99. The Company's shares have surged 39.44% in the last month, 137.47% over the previous three months, and 280.77% over the past year. The stock is trading 26.15% above its 50-day moving average and 97.50% above its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of the Company, which engages in the development of cannabis-based therapies to treat Alzheimer's, pain, nausea, eating disorders, several end points of Parkinson's, and epilepsy in humans, dogs, and cats, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 53.31.
On January 02 nd , 2018, India Globalization Capital (IGC) provided compelling in vivo data compiled from genetically engineered mice to mimic Alzheimer's. The Morris Water Maze study, which was conducted by Dr. Chuanhai Cao, IGC's Senior Advisor and Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences at USF's College of Pharmacy, showed that mice treated with IGC-AD1 at various doses exhibited significantly decreased learning trial errors, and markedly decreased escape latency times as compared with the control groups. Get the full research report on IGC for free by clicking below at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=IGC
Commercial Metals
Texas headquartered Commercial Metals Co.'s stock closed the day 0.44% higher at $24.99 with a total trading volume of 1.48 million shares. The Company's shares have advanced 18.83% in the past month, 15.64% in the previous three months, and 21.13% over the past year. The stock is trading 17.07% and 28.14% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Commercial Metals, which manufactures, recycles, and markets steel and metal products, and related materials and services in the US and internationally, have an RSI of 67.18.
On January 02 nd , 2018, Commercial Metals' Board of Directors of declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share of the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable on January 31 st , 2018, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 16 th , 2018. Free research on CMC can be accessed at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=CMC
Worthington Industries
Shares in Ohio headquartered Worthington Industries Inc. recorded a trading volume of 269,259 shares. The stock ended yesterday's trading session 0.33% higher at $48.38. The Company's shares have advanced 8.31% in the past month and 6.94% in the previous three months. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 11.09% and 5.43%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Worthington Industries, which focuses on value-added steel processing and manufactured metal products in the US, Austria, Canada, Mexico, Poland, Portugal, and Turkey, have an RSI of 68.57. Visit WallStEquities.com now and sign up for the free research on WOR at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=WOR
Lightbridge
Virginia-based Lightbridge Corp.'s stock finished Wednesday's session 8.51% lower at $2.15. A total volume of 3.15 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 1.81 million shares. The Company's shares have surged 110.78% in the last month and 104.76% over the previous three months. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 80.38% and 66.21%, respectively. Additionally, shares of Lightbridge, which operates as a nuclear fuel technology company worldwide, have an RSI of 71.23.
On January 22 nd , 2018, Lightbridge announced that it has received a notice of allowance for a key patent from the US Patent and Trademark Office related to its metallic nuclear fuel assembly design. The Company's advanced fuel technology is designed to significantly improve the economics, performance, and safety of nuclear power plants. The free technical report on LTBR is available at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=LTBR
--
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit
https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you ' re a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: +21-32-044-483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
SOURCE Wall St. Equities