PEMBROKE, Bermuda--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene”) (NYSE: ATH) today announced the pricing of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “Notes”). Athene’s inaugural bond offering is expected to close on January 12, 2018, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
Athene intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes. As was noted at the time Athene announced its reinsurance transaction with Voya Financial (NYSE: VOYA), Athene proactively accessed the capital markets to replenish excess capital given the current low rate environment. Barclays and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC are acting as active joint book-running managers for the offering.
The Notes are being offered pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement that has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. Any offer, or solicitation to buy, if at all, will be made solely by means of a prospectus and related prospectus supplement filed with the SEC. You may obtain these documents without charge from the SEC at www.sec.gov . Alternatively, you may request copies of these materials from the joint book-running managers by contacting Barclays Capital Inc. by calling toll-free 1-888-603-5847 or emailing barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com or Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC by calling toll-free: 1-866-471-2526 or emailing prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com .
About Athene Holding Ltd.
Athene, through its subsidiaries, is a leading retirement services company that issues, reinsures and acquires retirement savings products designed for the increasing number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs. The products offered by Athene include:
Retail fixed and fixed indexed annuity products; Reinsurance arrangements with third-party annuity providers; and Institutional products, such as funding agreements and group annuity contracts related to pension risk transfers.
Athene had total assets of approximately $96 billion as of September 30, 2017. Athene's principal subsidiaries include Athene Annuity & Life Assurance Company, a Delaware-domiciled insurance company, Athene Annuity and Life Company, an Iowa-domiciled insurance company, Athene Annuity & Life Assurance Company of New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company and Athene Life Re Ltd., a Bermuda-domiciled reinsurer.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, events and developments to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Athene’s management and the management of Athene’s subsidiaries. Generally, forward-looking statements include actions, events, results, strategies and expectations and are often identifiable by use of the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “projects,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “might,” or “continues” or similar expressions. Factors that could cause actual results, events and developments to differ from those set forth in, or implied by, the statements set forth herein are discussed from time to time in Athene’s filings with the SEC, including Athene’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as supplemented and amended by Athene’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2017, all of which can be found at the SEC’s website www.sec.gov .
All forward-looking statements described herein are qualified by these cautionary statements and there can be no assurance that the actual results, events or developments referenced herein will occur or be realized. Athene does not undertake any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results.
 //www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109006831/en/
Athene Holding Ltd.
Media Contact
Cyndi Harmeyer Fisher
+1 441-279-8533
+1 515-342-3719
cfisher@athene.com
or
Investor Relations Contact
Paige Hart
+1 441-279-8527
+1 310-698-4478
phart@athene.com
Source: Athene Holding Ltd.