KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Vidya Rajappa , CFA, joined American Century Investments' Multi-Asset Strategies team on Jan. 22 as vice president and portfolio manager. She will co-manage the firm's target-risk and target-date strategies, including the One Choice Portfolios ® , as well as the strategic allocation and multi-asset income strategies, with other members of the Multi-Asset Strategies team, including CIO Multi-Asset Strategies Richard Weiss, Vice President & Portfolio Manager Scott Wilson, CFA, and Vice President and Portfolio Manager Radu Gabudean.
"Vidya's extensive experience structuring and managing investment solutions for clients is complemented by her excellent technical skills and deep quantitative background," said Weiss. "Adding her expertise is a win for our clients and our firm. I'm pleased to welcome her to the team."
Rajappa, a 23-year industry veteran, joins American Century from Alliance Bernstein, where she was senior vice president, multi-asset solutions and a senior member of its defined contribution research and investment design team, responsible for designing proprietary and customized target-date solutions for clients. In her previous role as director of quantitative research in global analytics at Alliance Bernstein, she was responsible for the design and support of analytics across product groups and asset classes. Prior to joining Alliance Bernstein, Rajappa served as vice president and manager of JP Morgan Investment Management's quantitative analytics group.
Rajappa holds a bachelor's degree in electronics and telecommunications engineering from PSG College of Technology in India and a master's degree in statistics and operations research from New York University. She is a CFA charterholder and member of the CFA Institute.
American Century Investments is a leading global asset manager focused on delivering investment results and building long-term client relationships while supporting research that can improve human health and save lives. Founded in 1958, American Century Investments' 1,300 employees serve investment professionals, institutions, corporations and individual investors from offices in New York; London; Hong Kong; Mountain View, Calif.; and Kansas City, Mo. Jonathan S. Thomas is president and chief executive officer, and Victor Zhang and David MacEwen serve as co-chief investment officers. Delivering investment results to clients enables American Century Investments to distribute over 40 percent of its dividends to the Stowers Institute for Medical Research, a 500-person, non-profit basic biomedical research organization. The Institute owns more than 40 percent of American Century Investments and has received dividend payments of nearly $1.4 billion since 2000. For more information about American Century Investments, visit www.americancentury.com .
You should consider the fund's investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before you invest. The fund's prospectus or summary prospectus, which can be obtained by visiting americancentury.com , contains this and other information about the fund, and should be read carefully before investing.
The information is not intended as a personalized recommendation or fiduciary advice and should not be relied upon for, investment, accounting, legal or tax advice. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
American Century Investment Services, Inc., Distributor
©2018 American Century Proprietary Holdings, Inc.
Contact:
Laura Kouri
816 340-4710
Media Line
816 340-7033
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/vidya-rajappa-joins-american-century-investments-300590362.html
SOURCE American Century Investments