DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- AerCap Holdings N.V. (“AerCap”) (NYSE: AER) today announced that it will host a conference call and webcast for investors and analysts at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on Wednesday, February 14, 2018, to review its fourth quarter 2017 financial results.
AerCap's fourth quarter 2017 earnings press release will be released before financial markets open in the United States on February 14, 2018. A copy of the press release will be posted on the “Investors” section of AerCap's website at www.aercap.com . At the same time, the presentation slides for the conference call will also be posted on AerCap's website.
The call can be accessed live by dialing (U.S./Canada) +1 323 794 2423 or (International) +353 1 246 5621 and referencing code 4730385 at least 5 minutes before start time, or by visiting AerCap’s website at www.aercap.com under “Investors.”
The webcast replay will be archived on the “Investors” section of the company's website for one year.
About AerCap
AerCap is the global leader in aircraft leasing with, as of September 30, 2017, 1,506 owned, managed or on order aircraft in its portfolio. AerCap has one of the most attractive order books in the industry. AerCap serves approximately 200 customers in approximately 80 countries with comprehensive fleet solutions. AerCap is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (AER) and has its headquarters in Dublin with offices in Los Angeles, Shannon, Fort Lauderdale, Singapore, Amsterdam, Shanghai, Abu Dhabi, Seattle and Toulouse.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements, estimates and forecasts with respect to future performance and events. These statements, estimates and forecasts are "forward-looking statements." In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "might," "should," "expect," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "predict," "potential" or "continue" or the negatives thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this press release are forward-looking statements and are based on various underlying assumptions and expectations and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. As a result, we cannot assure you that the forward-looking statements included in this press release will prove to be accurate or correct. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future performance or events described in the forward-looking statements in this press release might not occur. Accordingly, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results and we do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake any obligation to, and will not, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180119005248/en/
AerCap Holdings N.V.
Media Relations:
Gillian Culhane, +353 1 636 0945
Vice President Corporate Communications
gculhane@aercap.com
or
Investor Relations:
Joseph McGinley, +353 1 418 0428
Head of Investor Relations
jmcginley@aercap.com
Source: AerCap Holdings N.V.