WICHITA, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CURO Group Holdings Corp. (NYSE: CURO) (“CURO” or the “Company”) today announced that the underwriters of the company’s initial public offering have exercised their option to purchase up to an additional 1,000,000 shares at the initial public offering price, less the underwriting discount to cover over-allotments.
As a result of the closing of its initial public offering and the exercise of the option, the Company has issued a total of 7,666,667 shares of common stock at a price of $14.00 per share. The net proceeds to the Company, after deducting estimated underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by CURO, are approximately $95.3 million.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Jefferies LLC and Stephens Inc. acted as joint book-running managers and as representatives of the underwriters for the offering. William Blair & Company L.L.C. also acted as a book-running manager for the offering.
This offering was made only by means of a prospectus. A copy of the final prospectus related to the offering may be obtained from: Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Attention: Prospectus Department, One Madison Avenue, New York, New York, 10010, or by telephone at +1 (800) 221-1037, or by email at newyork.prospectus@credit-suisse.com ; Jefferies LLC, 520 Madison Ave., 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10022, phone: 877-821-7388, email: prospectus_department@jefferies.com ; or Stephens Inc., 111 Center Street, Little Rock, AR 72201, phone: 501-377-2131, email: prospectus@stephens.com .
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with, and declared effective by, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
ABOUT CURO
CURO (NYSE: CURO), operating in three countries and powered by its fully integrated technology platform, is a market leader by revenues in providing short-term credit to underbanked consumers. In 1997, the Company was founded in Riverside, California by three Wichita, Kansas childhood friends to meet the growing consumer need for short-term loans. Their success led to opening stores across the United States, and expanding to offer online loans and financial services across three countries. Today, CURO combines its market expertise with a fully integrated technology platform, omni-channel approach and advanced credit decisioning to provide an array of short-term credit products across all mediums. CURO operates under a number of brands including Speedy Cash, Rapid Cash, Cash Money, LendDirect, Avío Credit, WageDayAdvance, Juo Loans, and Opt+. With over 20 years of operating experience, CURO provides financial freedom to the underbanked.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may include, without limitation, any statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as “target,” “believe,” “expect,” “aim,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “budget,” “continue,” “estimate,” “future,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “will,” “can have,” “likely,” “should,” “would,” “could” and other words and terms of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors beyond the Company’s control, as discussed by the Company’s filings with SEC, that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the expected results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Company’s present and future business strategies and the environment in which it will operate in the future. Any forward-looking statement made in this press release speaks only as the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
(CURO-NWS)
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180115005512/en/
CURO Group Holdings Corp.
Investor Relations:
Roger Dean, 844-200-0342
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
IR@curo.com
Source: CURO Group Holdings Corp.