There's a common story told in the media about the opioid epidemic : In this telling, it's not a coincidence that many of the communities that have been hit hard by the drug overdose crisis happen to be Rust Belt and Appalachian towns that have seen jobs leave over the past few years. This economic hardship has fed what some have characterized as, borrowing a term from groundbreaking research by economists Anne Case and Angus Deaton, "deaths of despair."
A new working paper distributed by the National Bureau of Economic Research, however, pushes back on this common story. Its central finding: Changing economic conditions in the past decade and a half explain less than 10 percent of the rise in drug overdose deaths between 1999, near the beginning of the opioid crisis, and 2015, the latest year with applicable data at the time of the study.
In short, recent economic hardship seems to explain only a small portion of the opioid crisis — and Christopher Ruhm, the study's author, argued that even his findings may overestimate the impact of worsening economic conditions on the epidemic.
Read more: 
What Serena Williams's scary childbirth story says about medical treatment of black women 
Trump's first full presidential physical exam, explained 
"Climate change" and "global warming" are disappearing from government websites 
Case and Deaton, whose report addressed opioid deaths as well as suicide and alcohol-related deaths , have already responded to the paper. They don't dispute its findings. But they argue that it doesn't address the original definition they use for deaths of despair, which includes deaths that were likely caused not solely by recently changing economic conditions but also shifting social and cultural forces as well as longer-term economic outcomes.
Ruhm, an economist at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, told me that it's true Case and Deaton may not have intended their deaths of despair hypothesis to be interpreted as a solely economic phenomenon, but it's often been interpreted as a one anyway in much of the media and public discussion. At the very least, his paper underlines that recent changes in economic conditions do not explain why the opioid epidemic became America's worst overdose crisis in US history, leading to tens of thousands of drug overdose deaths annually for more than a decade.
This is crucial not just to understanding the causes of the opioid epidemic, but also the solutions. If the economy isn't to blame for the crisis, then a better economy won't fix what currently ails us. So what will?
The study suggests it's not the economy First, a big caveat: Ruhm's study is a working paper. That means it has not yet gone through the formal peer review process. That process could expose problems in the research that a more rudimentary read can't catch. Still, Ruhm is a widely respected researcher, who has done some good work on both economics and opioids before.
For his study, Ruhm looked at the link between a composite of economic conditions and drug overdose deaths as well as other deaths of despair, such as alcohol-related deaths and suicides, at the county level.
show chapters Opioid epidemic driving down life expectancy in the US: Shatterproof CEO      8:07 AM ET Fri, 22 Dec 2017 | 04:07 To measure this, Ruhm put death rates against a mix of five economic measures: poverty rates, median household incomes, home prices, unemployment rates, and import exposure. "I can't claim this is completely comprehensive, but it's far more so than has typically been done in previous works," Ruhm said.
"You should expect to see higher rates of death in counties that have done worse [economically] than in those that have done better, but also that that should be a causal factor rather than just a correlation," Ruhm said. His results: "The economic conditions can only explain a small amount — less than 10 percent, probably much less than 10 percent — of the change [in overdose deaths]." The link was even weaker for economic conditions and the other deaths of despair.
In a separate analysis, Ruhm also used the Gini coefficient, which is used to measure economic inequality. He found that increasing county-level inequality generally predicted slower growth in mortality rates, although the results often weren't statistically significant. But he cautioned that it's difficult to calculate the Gini coefficient at the county level and changes over time in the county-level Gini coefficient, and he's working on further research to try to get a clearer overview on the effects of economic inequality on drug overdose deaths.
What's more, Ruhm argued that the weak connection he does find between economic conditions and drug overdose deaths is likely overstated — because places with worse economic problems also correlate with all sorts of other problems that his model likely couldn't fully control for.
"For example, people who are less educated are probably at greater risk as this drug environment gets riskier," Ruhm said. "And in rural areas, education levels tend to be lower. So some of that correlation — which is relatively weak to start with — is not caused by economic conditions; it's that the people at risk happen to live in areas that tended to have lower economic growth."
Drug supply seems to play a big role in fueling overdose crises Ruhm claimed that, more than the economy, the bigger driver of overdose deaths was "the broader drug environment" — meaning the expanded supply of opioid painkillers, heroin, and illicit fentanyl over the past decade and a half, which has made these drugs much more available and, therefore, easier to misuse and overdose on.
To analyze this, Ruhm's study makes an assumption: If economic (or social) factors were behind the rise in drug overdose deaths, then the availability of certain drugs would only change which drugs are linked to overdoses rather than who is overdosing.
show chapters Alkermes CEO: 'Best days are still ahead' for opioid addiction treatment Vivitrol      7:24 PM ET Mon, 8 Jan 2018 | 01:12 Imagine two simplified hypothetical worlds. In the first, economic hardship is the only cause of drug use. So people in the worst economic conditions are the only people who use drugs. (This is not remotely true in the real world, but, again, this is a very simplified hypothetical.) In this world, you would imagine that a recent spike in the supply of heroin would not make it so wealthy people start using drugs, because they're not going to be using drugs anyway. The only thing an increase in the heroin supply would do is make the drug more accessible — and therefore more used — among the worst-off population that has all the drug users.
In the second hypothetical, the supply of drugs is the only cause of drug use. In this case, everyone in all demographics uses drugs at similar rates, but younger people only use heroin while older people only use opioid painkillers. Which group uses more drugs entirely depends on which drug is more available. (Again, not remotely true in the real world.) So an increase in the supply of hero