DALLAS, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Women That Soar, LLC, a Dallas-based Media company, has announced the appointment of two new board members, Olden Lee as Chairman of Executive Board and Cheryl Boone Isaacs as board member. "Both of our newest Board members embody the spirit of WTS; they bring talent, expertise, leadership, and resources that will enable WTS to further its mission," said Gina Grant, Founder and CEO WTS.
Olden Lee served as a Board of Director for Starbucks Corporation since June 2003. Mr. Lee is a former PepsiCo, Inc. Executive, a global food, snack and beverage company. He worked for PepsiCo, Inc. for 28 years in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Taco Bell division.
He also serves as the Chairman of the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel, a panel established to resolve collective bargaining impasses with employees in the U.S. Foreign Service. Mr. Lee founded Lee Management and Consulting, a management consulting firm, and currently serves as its Principal.
"I want to thank Mr. Lee for accepting the role and position as Chairman of our board. His corporate expertise, leadership, and resources will further our initiative to become the global brand for creating and developing content empowering content for women," said Gina Grant, WTS' Founder and CEO. ‎
Cheryl Boone Isaacs is an American film marketing and public relations executive. She has represented the Public Relations branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science (AMPAS), known for its annual Academy Awards (Oscars). Boone Isaacs is beginning her fourth term as president and her 24th year as a governor.
Boone Isaacs heads CBI Enterprises, Inc., where she consults on film marketing efforts. She is currently an adjunct professor at Chapman University's Dodge College of Film and Media Arts and serves as a trustee of the American Film Institute.
"Cheryl's years of broad experience across important industries will add an invaluable perspective to our Board of Directors," said Gina Grant, Founder and CEO of WTS
About Women That Soar:
Women That Soar, LLC is an organization created to empower and encourage all women to feel confident in their unique talents and capabilities, to understand the power of unity, and to be strong in their journey to a productive, enriched life.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/women-that-soar-announces-two-new-board-members-300590364.html
SOURCE Women That Soar, LLC