BOSTON & MENLO PARK, Calif. & LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Summit Partners, a leading alternative investment firm, today announced the promotion of nine professionals globally. Matt Hamilton was promoted to Managing Director; Johannes Grefe, Colin Mistele, Mark Nordstrom, Steffan Peyer and Ross Stern were promoted to Principal; Ian Rothkopf was promoted to Vice President; and Harry Fackelmayer and Bobby Humen were promoted to Senior Associate.
“We are very pleased to recognize the achievements of these talented colleagues,” said Peter Chung, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Summit Partners. “We are proud of their accomplishments and their dedication to the Summit organization. In addition to their distinguished performance, they are all professionals of great character and integrity who are deeply committed to our portfolio companies and our limited partners.”
Matt Hamilton has been promoted to Managing Director. Matt joined Summit’s Boston office as an Associate in 2005. He was promoted to Senior Associate in 2008, Vice President in 2009, and he has served as a Principal since 2014. Matt is a member of Summit’s growth products & services team, where he focuses primarily on the consumer, retail, financial services and financial technology sectors. His investment and board experience includes Flow Traders (Euronext: FLOW), Focus Financial Partners (acquired by KKR and Stone Point Capital), Invoice Cloud, Progressive Finance (acquired by Aaron's), Salient Partners, Telerik (acquired by Progress Software) and Vestmark. Prior to Summit, Matt worked for Senator Olympia Snowe in the United States Senate. He holds a BA in economics, summa cum laude, from Colby College.
Johannes Grefe has been promoted to Principal. Johannes joined Summit’s London office as a Vice President in 2012. He is a member of Summit’s growth products & services team. Johannes’ board and investment experience includes Normec, Peak Well Systems (acquired by Schlumberger) and Sipartech. Prior to Summit, Johannes worked for Vitruvian Partners, TA Associates and Lazard. Johannes received an MSc in industrial engineering from University of Karlsruhe in Germany with highest distinction and an MS in engineering management from Portland State University.
Colin Mistele has been promoted to Principal. Colin joined Summit’s Menlo Park office as an Associate in 2011. He was promoted to Senior Associate in 2013 and Vice President in 2015. Focusing primarily on the technology sector, Colin’s investment experience includes Advanced Cell Diagnostics (acquired by Bio-Techne Corporation), Delphix, Gainsight, InfoArmor, Jamf, Podium, Reverb.com , RiskIQ, Rocket Fuel (NASDAQ: FUEL), TeleSign (acquired by BICS), TSheets (acquired by Intuit), Uber and Wowza Media Systems. Prior to Summit, Colin worked for Union Square Advisors, Accenture and Electronic Arts. He holds a BS in finance and marketing from Lehigh University.
Mark Nordstrom has been promoted to Principal. Mark joined Summit’s Boston office as a Vice President in 2010. He is a member of Summit’s Capital Markets team and works on the firm’s capital markets activities, both for existing portfolio companies and for new acquisitions. In addition, he helps Summit manage its commercial and investment banking relationships. Prior to Summit, Mark worked for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Merrill Lynch & Co. and State Street Corporation. Mark holds a BA in economics from Wesleyan University.
Steffan Peyer has been promoted to Principal. Steffan first joined Summit’s London office as an Associate in 2007 and rejoined the firm in 2013 as a Vice President. Today, he focuses on the technology sector in Europe. His investment experience includes 360T Group (acquired by Deutsche Börse), Market Logic, PatSnap, RELEX Solutions and Signavio. Prior to rejoining Summit, Steffan was a member of the management team of Turbulenz Limited, an internet technology company responsible for developing the technology and platform that enables the revolutionary online game network, turbulenz.com . Steffan holds a BS in finance and accounting, magna cum laude, from Boston College.
Ross Stern has been promoted to Principal. Ross joined Summit’s Boston office as an Associate in 2009, and has been serving as Vice President since 2014. He is a member of Summit’s healthcare & life sciences team, and his investment and board experience includes DMG Practice Management Solutions (acquired by Ares Management), My Dentist (acquired by Heartland Dental) and Paradigm Outcomes. Previously, Ross worked at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation and in Cowen and Company’s Health Care Investment Banking Group, where he focused on M&A transactions as well as public and private offerings. Ross holds a BA in economics and history from Bowdoin College and an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Ian Rothkopf has been promoted to Vice President. Ian joined Summit’s Boston office in 2017 as a Senior Associate. He is a member of Summit’s Peak Performance Group and works with management teams to identify and execute growth strategies that build long-term value. Prior to Summit, Ian was a Principal at The Parthenon Group where he led strategic consulting projects with growth-stage, corporate and private equity clients. Ian holds a BA, cum laude, from Amherst College and an MBA with distinction from Harvard Business School.
Harry Fackelmayer has been promoted to Senior Associate. Harry joined Summit’s Menlo Park office as an Associate in 2015. He focuses primarily on the healthcare & life sciences sector and his investment experience includes Healthline Media. Prior to Summit, Harry worked for Goldman Sachs in New York, where he was a member of both the Healthcare M&A Group and the Global Equities desk within the Securities Division. He holds a BA in economics from Union College.
Bobby Humen has been promoted to Senior Associate. Bobby joined Summit’s Boston office as an Associate in 2015. He focuses primarily on the healthcare & life sciences sector, and his investment experience includes DMG Practice Management Solutions and Paradigm Outcomes. Prior to Summit, Bobby worked for Lazard on the Middle Market Healthcare Mergers & Acquisitions team. He holds a BS in business administration, with distinction, from the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
About Summit Partners
Founded in 1984, Summit Partners is a global alternative investment firm that is currently managing more than $14 billion in capital dedicated to growth equity, fixed income and public equity opportunities. Summit invests across growth sectors of the economy and has invested in more than 460 companies in technology, healthcare and other growth industries. These companies have completed more than 140 public equity offerings, and more than 180 have been acquired through strategic mergers and sales. Summit maintains offices in North America and Europe, and invests in companies around the world. For more information, visit www.summitpartners.com or follow on Twitter at @SummitPartners .
In the United States of America, Summit Partners operates as an SEC-registered investment advisor. In the United Kingdom, this document is issued by Summit Partners LLP, a firm authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Summit Partners LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC388179 and its registered office is at 11–12 St. James’s Square, London, SW1Y 4LB, UK. This document is intended solely to provide information regarding Summit Partners’ potential financing capabilities for prospective portfolio companies.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124006167/en/
Summit Partners
Meg Devine, 617-824-1047
mdevine@summitpartners.com
Source: Summit Partners