CLEVELAND, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hyland , a leader in providing software solutions for managing content, processes and cases, has appointed two new executives to lead its international business and sales efforts within Latin America and EMEA & APAC.
Edgar Novoa has been promoted to Associate Vice President, Latin America at Hyland. For the past eight years, Edgar successfully led Hyland's Latin American sales group, expanding Hyland's recognition as an established, in-region vendor and helped to promote it as a leading content services provider. Edgar's more than 25 years of experience, strong knowledge of the Latin America market and vision for growth align perfectly with Hyland's strategy to expand its footprint within this valuable market.
Additionally, Bob Dunn, was promoted to Associate Vice President, EMEA & APAC. Based in London, Bob brings more than 26 years of experience helping organizations fulfill digital transformation goals and 18 years dedicated to promoting the unlimited potential of Hyland's content services suite. With prodigious success as Hyland's country manager in Australia, Bob's leadership and vision will help Hyland increase sales leveraging both organic investments, as well as the enhanced foundation that exists from its acquisition of the Perceptive business unit .
"Hyland's international presence and growth strategy remain a huge focus area and opportunity for our organization as we strive to become the leading content services provider globally," said Ed McQuiston, executive vice president and chief commercial officer at Hyland. "Bob and Edgar bring great leadership, sales and market expertise to help us execute on our growth strategies within these priority regions to further establish our brand moving forward."
To learn more about Hyland's status as a leading provider of content services solutions visit Hyland.com . For information about why more than 19,000 organizations choose Hyland to efficiently manage their content, processes and cases visit OnBase.com .
About Hyland
Hyland is a leader in providing software solutions for managing content, processes and cases for organizations across the globe. For over 25 years, Hyland has enabled more than 19,000 organizations to digitalize their workplaces and fundamentally transform their operations. Named one of Fortune's Best Companies to Work For® since 2014, Hyland is widely known as both a great company to work for and a great company to do business with. For more information, please visit Hyland.com .
Media contact:
Megan Larsen
+1 440-788-4988
megan.larsen@hyland.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hyland-expands-its-international-leadership-team-300583173.html
SOURCE Hyland