CHICAGO, Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Supply Clinic , the online marketplace for dental supplies, announced the appointment of John Rossman, former Director of Amazon Marketplace business and Enterprise Services at Amazon.com , Managing Partner at Rossman Partners, and Senior Advisor at Alvarez & Marsal, to its Advisory Board. Throughout his career, Mr. Rossman has helped build, scale, and maintain technology platforms and digital strategies.
"We're thrilled to have John join our team. His experience building third-party marketplaces and scaling digital platforms is a tremendous asset to our company," said Jacob Drucker, CEO of Supply Clinic.
"Any industry that has trapped customers into unfriendly terms and antiquated customer experiences is open to disruption. The dental supply industry is an example where improved customer experience, transparent pricing and trusted selection will improve business for dentists serving patients. Supply Clinic is committed to transforming the industry and I'm thrilled to participate," Mr. Rossman explained.
John Rossman is currently the Managing Partner of Rossman Partners, and advises his clients on digital strategies and operations across many industries.
Mr. Rossman is also the author of The Amazon Way: 14 Leadership Principles of the World's Most Disruptive Company, and is an expert on digital disruption and building and executing new business models.
Before joining A&M, Mr. Rossman was Director of Merchant Integration and Enterprise Services at Amazon.com and led the launching and scaling the Amazon Marketplace business, which today accounts for over 50% of all units sold at Amazon. He managed worldwide services to clients including Target.com and Toys R Us . He had full operational and technical ownership for clients, overseeing online merchandising, website technologies, branded fulfillment delivery and customer service.
Mr. Rossman earned a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from Oregon State University.
About Supply Clinic
Supply Clinic was founded by Dr. Scott Drucker and his brother Jacob, a statistician. As a Periodontal resident, Dr. Drucker could not find any trusted source to price-compare and buy supplies from different sellers. The brothers assembled a talented team and built Supply Clinic to fill the void. With 100 trusted sellers and 35,000 products, Supply Clinic lets customers compare products and pricing, and buy from multiple sellers with a single checkout.
For more information, call 773-634-1462 or visit www.supplyclinic.com .
CONTACT:
Jacob Drucker
(617) 356-8033
jacob@supplyclinic.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/supply-clinic-names-john-rossman-former-amazoncom-director-of-marketplace-business-to-advisory-board-300582901.html
SOURCE Supply Clinic