WILLEMSTAD, Curacao, Jan. 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Retail Holdings N.V. (Symbol: RHDGF) -- Retail Holdings N.V. ("ReHo") issued today this further explanation regarding the payment date of the previously announced $9.00 per Share distribution. The payment date for the distribution is January 10, 2018.
The $9.00 per Share distribution represents approximately 42% of ReHo's closing stock price on January 3, 2018. Pursuant to NASDAQ rules, when a distribution is declared in a per share amount that exceeds 25% of a company's stock price, the date on which that company's shares will begin to trade without the distribution, or ex-distribution, is the first business day following the payment date. Because the distribution is expected to exceed 25% of ReHo's Share price, NASDAQ will apply this rule, and ReHo expects, in accordance with this rule, that the ex-dividend date as set by NASDAQ, will be January 11, 2018, the first business day following the payment date for the distribution. Shareholders of record on the record date, January 4, 2018, who sell their Shares prior to the ex‑distribution date, January 11, 2018, will not receive the $9.00 cash distribution.
Shareholders who have additional questions or who require further clarification, are advised to contact their broker.
About Retail Holdings
Retail Holdings N.V. is a holding company with one principal asset, a 54.1% equity interest in Sewko Holdings Limited ("Sewko"), the parent company of Singer Asia Limited, a distributor of consumer durable products through public subsidiaries in Bangladesh and India, with a residual equity interest in a similar business in Sri Lanka. Retail Holdings N.V. has no other operating activities other than those carried out through Sewko/Singer Asia. Additional financial and other information about Retail Holdings N.V. may be found at the Corporate/Investor section of the Company's website: www.retailholdings.com . Price quotations for the Company's shares are available on the "Pink Sheets" quotation services under the symbol "RHDGF".
INFORMATION CONTACT
Amy Pappas (914) 241-3404
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/retail-holdings-nv-distribution-payment-date-300577730.html
SOURCE Retail Holdings N.V.