CHICAGO, Jan. 31, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Epazz, Inc. (OTC: EPAZ), a leading provider of blockchain cryptocurrency mobile apps and cloud-based business software solutions, announced today that the company has acquired the IOS app Bitcoin Charts. The app provides live trading data of cryptocurrencies on the IOS platform. The company will combine the newly acquired CryptoFolio with the Bitcoin Charts IOS app to create the ultimate live cryptocurrency trading app. The combined app will be available on both the App Store and Android Play Store. Epazz will be translating the app into 10 different languages. The two blockchain apps already have over 3,000 downloads. Also, the company’s primary blockchain app, Zenapay, had more than 17,000 downloads during the month of January alone. The second version of Zenapay will be released on February 10, 2018.
You can download CryptoFolio app at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.happycoderz.cryptofolio&hl=en
Epazz’s increasing portfolio of blockchain apps will help in across sales and up sales. All users of Zenapay will have the option to make in-app purchases of our CryptoFolio app. The company will provide Zenapay users a discount for using CryptoFolio. Epazz’s acquisition of the Bitcoin Charts IOS app will provide live trading data to CryptoFolio users.
The CryptoFolio business model provides free features to attract users and then allows users to purchase additional features from $1.99 to $5.99 each. The live trading data feature will help attract new users to the app.
CryptoFolio is one of the few block trading apps with chatrooms. Epazz will be expanding the chatrooms in future versions of the app, and it expects to release the next version of CryptoFolio on both IOS and Android in the next few months.
“We are purchasing the rights to blockchain apps to speed up our market entry into the blockchain industry. CryptoFolio and Zenapay users will benefit from the live data on Bitcoin Charts,” said Shaun Passley, PhD, CEO of Epazz Inc. “We will add mobile apps through acquisition or internal development over the next few months. We believe blockchain is a very large industry, and we will use our skills to expand into this market.”
About Zenapay ( www.zenapay.com ) Zenapay is being developed to solve a major problem in high-risk industries: getting paid. Traditional banking systems do not allow high-risk industries to access their payment systems. Zenapay Bitcoin Wallet has been downloaded more than 10,000 times since its launch on the Android Play Store. Zenapay offers a cutting-edge payment solution that gives consumers a way to buy items online or in stores using Bitcoin. The new Bitcoin payment software will allow consumers to use digital currency to make online or in-store purchases with ease. The process will also be anonymous because all transaction details are encrypted through Bitcoin, which will enable stores to
accept digital currency instead of only cash. Zenapay is available on both the App Store and Play Store. About Epazz, Inc. ( www.epazz.com )
Epazz, Inc. specializes in enterprise cryptocurrency blockchain mobile apps and cloud business process software, with more than 500 repeat customers. The new Bitcoin mobile app is a financial technology company that offers unique software that allows consumers to acquire Bitcoin at the point of sale. The consumer can then use the cryptocurrency or digital currency to make a purchase at the store with ease. Epazz technology makes it easy to convert legacy systems into cloud business process software, for which the company then charges an annual subscription fee. Epazz has acquired 11 software companies that have converted or are in the process of converting their legacy software products to cloud software using Epazz technology. Epazz then markets the new cloud-based solutions to new and existing customers.
SAFE HARBOR
“Safe Harbor” statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: certain statements contained in this press release are “ ” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe” and “continue” (or the negative forms thereof) or similar terminology. Such are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results or those implied by such . Investors are cautioned that any are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such . Epazz, Inc. assumes no obligation and has no intention of updating these , and it has no obligation to update or correct information prepared by third parties that is not paid for by Epazz, Inc. Investors are encouraged to review Epazz, Inc.’s public filings on SEC.gov and otcmarkets.com , including its unaudited and audited financial statements and its OTC markets filings, which contain general business information about the company’s operations, results of operations and risks associated with the company and its operations.
CONTACT: For more information, please contact: Investor Relations mailto: investors@epazz.net (312) 955-8161 www.epazz.com
Source:Epazz, Inc.