LAS VEGAS, Jan. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ANI Networks, a leading provider of wholesale telecommunications services, announced today the hire of Gary Fry as Chief Executive Officer.
"I am delighted to welcome Gary back to our family," said Sam Delug, majority shareholder of ANI Networks. "Gary will be a significant addition to our current team of exceptional employees. I'm confident that Gary's experience will allow us to continue to grow our existing business, as well as add exciting new products and services geared toward the retail and enterprise markets."
Prior to joining ANI Networks, Gary spent nearly 30 years in the telecom industry. He has held executive positions with Verizon (Wiltel), Pacific Gateway Exchange, and was the founder and Managing Partner of United Gateway. Gary also served as ANI Networks' CEO from 2005 to 2008.
"It is an honor and a thrill to rejoin the extraordinary team at ANI Networks," said Fry. "The company has been, and continues to be a recognized leader in providing custom solutions for the wholesale marketplace. It is very rare in our industry for a company to have extraordinary success over such a long period of time. It's a true testament to ownership commitment, excellence in delivery, and stability of management. I am very excited to lead an effort to deliver new services and solutions to the enterprise market with the same level of satisfaction we provide our current wholesale customers."
Fry currently sits on the board of the ACCA, founded the West Coast Carrier Forum, and was a four-term board member of INCOMPAS (formerly COMPTEL). He has also assisted associations with the FCC and US Congress regarding the state of communications competition in the United States. He earned his BA from West Virginia University and has been honored as a speaker and guest commentator on the telecom industry around the globe.
About ANI Networks
Established in 1989, ANI Networks is provides world-class telecommunications services to over 400 CLEC, ILEC, Cable Providers, Hosted VoIP, Wireless and Switchless Reseller companies. ANI Networks' strategic direction is to deliver unsurpassed quality to wholesale customers and their subscribers.
Contact
ANI Networks
Diane Michelin
dmichelin@aninetworks.com
www.aninetworks.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ani-networks-hires-gary-fry-as-chief-executive-officer-300581823.html
SOURCE ANI Networks