DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Preston Hollow Capital , the leading solution provider in municipal finance, announced today the hiring of Charlie Visconsi as Managing Director focused on transaction originations. Mr. Visconsi joins Preston Hollow Capital from Morgan Stanley’s Public Finance Group in New York City, where he was Co-Head of Public Finance from 2012 through 2017.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006570/en/
Charlie Visconsi, Managing Director - Preston Hollow Capital (Photo: Business Wire)
“We’re delighted to have a banker with Charlie’s capabilities, relationships and record of accomplishment in the municipal market join the PHC team,” said Jim Thompson, Chairman and CEO of Preston Hollow Capital. “Charlie’s experience leading significant, high profile public finance transactions makes him a great fit with our seasoned team of municipal finance professionals.”
Charlie served as the Co-Head of Morgan Stanley's Public Finance Department for five years through the summer of 2017. During that time, Morgan Stanley was a consistent Top Four negotiated underwriter of tax-exempt debt focused on a diverse client base for complicated financings. Besides his management responsibilities during his 20-year career with Morgan Stanley, Mr. Visconsi served as lead banker on over $40 billion of senior-managed transactions as well as over $3 billion of interest rate swaps. His leadership on recent landmark transactions includes the New Jersey Economic Development Authority’s $577 million refinancing of DMV Bonds in September 2017, NatGasoline’s $252 million tax-exempt financing in April 2016, a $255 million financing for University Hospital in Newark, NJ in 2015 as well as a $827 million financing for Rutgers University to finance the acquisition of a significant portion of UMDNJ. He has been a consistent leader in the municipal market for the past decade, acting as lead banker on the New Jersey Turnpike’s $1.75 billion financing in 2009 -- the first benchmark Build America financing in the market. He also served as lead banker on the $963 million Dulles Toll Road financing which won the Bond Buyer’s 2009 “Deal of the Year.”
“I have known and worked with Charlie for more than 20 years, first as my employee, then as an investment banker in a variety of settings,” said Robert Clarke Brown, Treasurer of Case Western Reserve University. “He is as good of a banker as I’ve ever known, with a remarkable ability to discern his client’s needs and fashion an appropriate solution.”
Mr. Visconsi graduated from Georgetown University with a BA in Economics and holds a MBA from Case Western Reserve University’s Weatherhead School of Business.
About Preston Hollow Capital
Preston Hollow Capital ( www.phcllc.com ) is the leading solution provider in municipal finance. Headquartered in Dallas, PHC is an independent specialty finance company with more than $1 billion in permanent equity capital and over $2 billion in investment capacity from a diverse investor base comprised of founding management, leading institutional investors including Stone Point Capital and HarbourVest Partners , and several prominent family offices. Preston Hollow Capital differentiates itself with its ability to deliver capital with speed, certainty and flexibility.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180116006570/en/
Preston Hollow Capital
Max Pickle, 214-389-0813
mpickle@phcllc.com
Source: Preston Hollow Capital