SANTA CLARA, Calif., Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Frost & Sullivan's Manufacturing Leadership Council (MLC), the world's foremost executive leadership organization dedicated to driving transformational growth for the world's manufacturing companies, announces the election of Michele C. D'Alessandro to the MLC Board of Governors. D'Alessandro is Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Manufacturing IT at Merck & Co., Inc.
"Being elected to the Board of Governors is a tremendous honor for me. The Manufacturing Leadership Council is an outstanding leadership network and I am looking forward to the opportunity to further shape the future of global manufacturing," said D'Alessandro.
In a unanimous vote, MLC Board members, who help steer the Manufacturing Leadership Council, approved the nomination. With this appointment, the Board of Governors now includes 19 members from organizations representing the full ecosystem of the manufacturing industry across multiple sectors, from large global manufacturers to small and medium companies, as well as leading academic institutions.
"I am thrilled by the election of Michele to the Board of Governors," said David R. Brousell, co-founder of the Manufacturing Leadership Council . "Michele's knowledge, ability, and experience with digital transformation on a large scale will significantly strengthen the Board's overall capabilities as Council member companies, and the industry as a whole, moves ahead with Manufacturing 4.0 in 2018 and beyond."
As Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Manufacturing IT at Merck, D'Alessandro provides strategic leadership, oversight, and delivery of information technology and digital solutions for the Merck Manufacturing Division. D'Alessandro heads a global IT organization of 300+ people and controls $350M of spend focused on technology-enabled business transformation for Merck's Small Molecule, Vaccines, Sterile/Therapeutic Proteins, and Biologics lines of business, as well as the enabling functions of supply chain, external manufacturing, global science & commercialization, and global quality.
D'Alessandro holds a Bachelors' double major degree in Math and Computer Science from Rutgers University, and an M.B.A. in Information Sciences from Rutgers Graduate School of Management. She also serves on the Strategic Advisory Board for Enigma.io and the Big Data Advisory Board for Rutgers University. In Nov 2017, she was awarded a Gold Stevie® Award for Women in Business in the Life Sciences and Healthcare Transformation category. A Manufacturing Leadership Council member since 2016, D'Alessandro and her team also won three Manufacturing Leadership Awards last year.
(Photo available on request)
About the Manufacturing Leadership Council
Founded in 2008, the Manufacturing Leadership Council's mission is to inspire and support manufacturing executives to achieve transformational growth for themselves, their companies, and the industry at large through enlightened leadership. With 800 senior-level members from many of the world's leading manufacturing companies, the Council focuses on the intersection of advanced technologies and the business, identifying growth and improvement opportunities in the operation, organization and leadership of manufacturing enterprises as they pursue their journeys to Manufacturing 4.0. In support of its mission, the Council produces an extensive portfolio of thought-leading content, networking events, research, industry awards, and professional development products, programs, and services for its members.
The Manufacturing Leadership Board of Governors
The Manufacturing Leadership Board of Governors comprises senior executives and industry experts at leading manufacturing, academic and research organizations around the world, including Lockheed Martin, Procter & Gamble, Ford Motor Company, Dow Chemical, Cisco Systems, Germany's SmartFactory Technology Initiative, Lexmark International, Proto Labs, Premio Foods, Virtex Enterprises, S&S Hinge, Graphicast, MIT, UCLA, the University of Cincinnati, the University of New Hampshire, the University of Cambridge's Institute for Manufacturing (IfM) in the UK, and Frost & Sullivan.
For more information and MLC membership details, please visit www.manufacturingleadershipcouncil.com
About Frost & Sullivan
Frost & Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market participants. For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global 1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Contact us: Start the discussion
Contact:
Jaylon Brinkley
Corporate Communications – North America
P: (210) 247.2481
F: (210) 348.1003
E: jaylon.brinkley@frost.com
www.manufacturingleadershipcouncil.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/merck-vp--cio-michele-c-dalessandro-joins-the-manufacturing-leadership-councils-board-of-governors-300581268.html
SOURCE Frost & Sullivan