WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Supreme Court justices on Wednesday signaled sympathy toward a Louisiana death row inmate convicted of a 2008 triple murder who is seeking a new trial because his lawyer told jurors over the defendant’s objections that the man had carried out the shootings.
Based on questions asked by liberal and conservative justices during the one-hour argument, it appears likely the court will decide that Robert McCoy, 44, should receive a new trial. The ruling could be a narrow one, with justices concerned about a broad decision that would limit the ability of lawyers to make strategic decisions during trials.
McCoy was convicted of killing the mother, stepfather and son of his estranged wife Yolanda McCoy in Bossier City, Louisiana. All were shot in the head at close range.
Lawyer Larry English, hired by the defendant’s parents, believed the evidence against his client was overwhelming and sought to negotiate a plea deal with prosecutors that would result in a life sentence. McCoy rejected that plan.
The legal question is whether McCoy’s right to legal representation at trial under the U.S. Constitution’s Sixth Amendment was violated. The Supreme Court’s ruling, due by the end of June, will set a new precedent on whether a lawyer can concede a defendant’s guilt over the client’s stated objections.
Liberal Justice Elena Kagan said the case showed a conflict between the lawyer’s objective of wanting to avoid the death penalty for the defendant and the client’s objective of not wanting to admit that he killed his wife’s family members.
“The question is when that happens, does the lawyer have to step back?” Kagan added.
Conservative Justice Neil Gorsuch questioned whether a lawyer substituting his own goal for a client’s could even be viewed as “assistance of counsel” under the Sixth Amendment at all.
‘REASONABLE TRIAL STRATEGY’
After McCoy was convicted of killing his estranged wife’s mother Christine Young, stepfather Willie Young and son Gregory Colston, he obtained new lawyers and said he had been deprived of effective assistance of counsel at trial. This claim was rejected by the trial court and then by the Louisiana Supreme Court, which stated that “admitting guilt in an attempt to avoid the imposition of the death penalty appears to constitute reasonable trial strategy.”
Yolanda McCoy and her infant daughter had just gone into protective custody after her husband allegedly pinned her on a bed at knife point and threatened to kill her and himself.
At the time of the murders, police received an emergency call in which Christine Young was heard saying: “Robert, she ain’t here Robert. ... I don’t know where she is.” A gunshot was audible before the phone line went dead.
McCoy, arrested in Idaho days after the murders, has maintained his innocence, saying he was out of state at the time. When he was arrested, a gun later tied to the murders was found in the 18-wheeler truck in which he was traveling.
Although McCoy was deemed mentally fit to stand trial, English said at the time that his client was suffering from “severe mental and emotional issues.”
By the time of the 2011 trial, the relationship between client and lawyer had broken down. English told the jury during his opening statement that his client had killed the three victims. He sought to argue that McCoy should be found guilty of second-degree murder instead of the more serious first-degree murder on the grounds that his client did not have the intent to commit the crimes. In doing so, he hoped McCoy would avoid the death penalty.
Reporting by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Will Dunham
 