Walmart to shutter 63 Sam's Club locations Walmart is closing down 63 of its Sam's Club locations across the country. Some stores went dark as early as Thursday, and not all of the retailer's employees were notified in advance. The news comes as Walmart just announced it would be raising starting wages and giving some employees bonuses. Updated Moments Ago | 00:58 
Walmart is shuttering 63 of its Sam's Club locations across the U.S., with several stores closing their doors as early as Thursday, a company spokesperson told CNBC. 
That compares with a total of five wholesale club stores the company has closed since fiscal 2013, securities filings show. 
Ten to 12 of the closed stores could be converted to e-commerce facilities, the spokesperson said. The news is consistent with Sam's Club's ongoing plans to optimize its stores to fulfill more online orders and keep pace with internet retailers such as Boxed. 
Earlier Thursday morning, Walmart announced it would be using savings from new tax legislation to raise employee's starting wages and offer bonuses to staff , including those people who work at Sam's Club. The company told CNBC all of Sam's Club's employees who are affected by the store closures will still be eligible for bonuses. 
Reports of the Sam's Club closings began to emerge in local media outlets throughout Texas, New York, New Jersey Alaska and Arizona, amid complaints from disgruntled employees and confused customers. In some cases, employees weren't notified in advance, some of the publications said. 
Sam's Club's Twitter account was issuing statements to upset customers by Thursday afternoon. Some people were asking to have their memberships refunded, among other complaints. Tweet 
When one user asked about picking up a prescription from a closing store, Sam's Club said: "Pharmacies will stay open for at least two weeks, and we will work with each state's Board of Pharmacy to help guide this transition." 
Sam's Club has generally underperformed relative to Walmart, facing strong competition from discount peer Costco , which has excelled at merchandising and vendor relations. In recent years, Walmart has focused on reviving the brand. 
At an October meeting with investors, Sam's Club CEO John Furner said the retailer needed to improve its "competitive position" as same-store sales growth started to slow into the first half of fiscal 2018. 
Those efforts would include better targeting households that make between $75,000 to $125,000, Furner said. He didn't speak to whether Sam's Club would be closing or opening more stores as part of achieving those goals. 
More broadly, Walmart has been investing in its digital business, underlined by its change of name from Wal-Mart Stores to Walmart. These efforts have been propelled by its acquisition of Amazon competitor Jet.com, through which it has been building a coterie of online brands. 
—CNBC's Courtney Reagan contributed to this reporting. Lauren Hirsch Retail Reporter for CNBC.com Related Securities 