PUNE, India, January 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
According to the new market research report " Security Control Room Market by Offering (Display, KVM Switch, Software, Services), Application (Public, Corporate, Industrial Safety), Vertical (Transportation, Utilities & Telecom, Defense, Healthcare), and Region - Global Forecast to 2023 " , published by MarketsandMarkets™, the market is expected to grow from USD 7.20 billion in 2018 to USD 10.00 billion by 2023, at a CAGR of 6.80% between 2018 and 2023. The growth of the security control room market can be attributed to government initiatives, modernized policies, and regulations to increase public security and safety worldwide, as well as the increasing need to keep an eye on criminal activities and forecast natural disasters to avoid huge losses.
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160303/792302 )
Browse 66 market data Tables and 54 Figures spread through 166 Pages and in-depth TOC on " Security Control Room M arket - Global Forecast to 2023 "
https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/security-control-room-market-77299634.html
Early buyers will receive 10% customization o n this report
The security control room market for services offering is expected to grow at the highest CAGR between 2018 and 2023
Control room technology has various service offerings including installation, managed services, and maintenance and support services. Efficient services are an integral part of a control room as well as being able to work effectively in a critical working environment. This is expected to drive the growth of services offering during the forecast period.
The market for the industrial safety application is expected to hold the largest share of the security control room market between 2018 and 2023
Industrial safety applications are evolving at a high rate as these are chiefly used in manufacturing plants such as oil & gas and nuclear plants. Along with the growing industrialization worldwide, the need for industrial safety systems is increasing to protect human resources, industrial machinery, and manufacturing plants, in case any process goes beyond the allowed control margins. A control room in industrial safety plays a critical role as it has to deal with critical operations taking place in a controlled environment. The control room and industrial safety programs play a key role in the management of industrial plants.
Download PDF Brochure : https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/pdfdownload.asp?id=77299634
The market for transportation vertical held a major share of the security control room market in 2017
Transportation is a diverse segment that requires control room solutions specific to rail control, port control, traffic management, and fleet management. For most applications, an intelligent transportation system (ITS) minimizes congestion and improves safety, combining security and general surveillance with analysis of large transport network topologies. A typical transport control room operates 24/7 and is specifically designed to provide the best ergonomic solution for the safety and comfort of its operators.
North America held the largest share of the security control room market in 2017
North America, being a technologically advanced and developed region, is a leading market for control room technologies. North America has the first-mover advantage in the adoption of new technologies such as smartphones and cloud platforms. Its strong financial position also allows it to heavily invest in leading tools and technologies for effective business operations. These advantages give North American organizations a competitive market edge.
Inquiry Before Buy @ https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Enquiry_Before_Buying.asp?id=77299634
The security control room ecosystem includes manufacturers and resellers such as ABB (Switzerland), Barco (Belgium), Black Box (US), Harris (US), Motorola Solutions (US), Tyler Technologies (US), Eizo Corporation (Japan), Zetron (US), TriTech Software Systems (US), Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure (US), Christie Digital Systems (US), Superion (US), Electrosonic (US), and SAIFOR Group (Spain).
Browse Related Reports
Large Format Display (LFD) Market by Offering, Display Type (Video Wall & Standalone), Technology (LED-Backlit LCD, Direct-View LED, OLED, E-Paper), Size, Brightness Level, Application (Indoor & Outdoor), Vertical, and Region - Global Forecast to 2023
https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/large-format-display-market-9304851.html
Multifactor Authentication Market by Model (Two-, Three-, Four-, and Five-Factor), Application (Banking and Finance, Government, Military and Defense, Commercial Security, Consumer Electronics, Healthcare), and Geography - Global Forecast to 2022
https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/multi-factor-authentication-market-877.html
Subscribe Reports from Semiconductor Domain @ http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Knowledgestore.asp
About MarketsandMarkets™
MarketsandMarkets™ provides quantified B2B research on 30,000 high growth niche opportunities/threats which will impact 70% to 80% of worldwide companies' revenues. Currently servicing 5000 customers worldwide including 80% of global Fortune 1000 companies as clients. Almost 75,000 top officers across eight industries worldwide approach MarketsandMarkets™ for their painpoints around revenues decisions.
Our 850 fulltime analyst and SMEs at MarketsandMarkets™ are tracking global high growth markets following the "Growth Engagement Model - GEM". The GEM aims at proactive collaboration with the clients to identify new opportunities, identify most important customers, write "Attack, avoid and defend" strategies, identify sources of incremental revenues for both the company and its competitors. MarketsandMarkets™ now coming up with 1,500 MicroQuadrants (Positioning top players across leaders, emerging companies, innovators, strategic players) annually in high growth emerging segments. MarketsandMarkets™ is determined to benefit more than 10,000 companies this year for their revenue planning and help them take their innovations/disruptions early to the market by providing them research ahead of the curve.
MarketsandMarkets's flagship competitive intelligence and market research platform, "RT" connects over 200,000 markets and entire value chains for deeper understanding of the unmet insights along with market sizing and forecasts of niche markets.
Contact:
Mr. Rohan
MarketsandMarkets™ INC.
630 Dundee Road
Suite 430
Northbrook, IL 60062
USA: +1-888-600-6441
Email: sales@marketsandmarkets.com
Visit Our Blog@ http://www.marketsandmarketsblog.com/market-reports/electronics-and-semiconductors
Connect us on LinkedIn @ http://www.linkedin.com/company/marketsandmarkets
SOURCE MarketsandMarkets