SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Frazier Healthcare Partners today announced Mary Brainerd, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Minnesota-based HealthPartners, has been named a Senior Advisor to the firm’s Growth Buyout team.
“We are delighted to have an executive of Mary’s caliber joining Frazier as a Senior Advisor. She has extensive leadership and management experience in integrated healthcare, including care delivery and health plans. Her insights and guidance will be most valuable to the firm and our growing slate of portfolio companies,” said Ben Magnano, General Partner.
“Innovation, especially new services, products and approaches in health care, are essential to top-quality, affordable care, and improved health and well-being in our country,” said Ms. Brainerd. “I am looking forward to working with the team at Frazier Healthcare Partners as they bring forward innovative solutions to the health care challenges we face.”
Ms. Brainerd joins an esteemed group of Frazier Senior Advisors including Dr. Tom Cooper, John Grotting, Bob Lefton, Dr. René Lerer, Mark Parrish, and Bob Zollars.
About Mary Brainerd:
Ms. Brainerd retired from her position as President and Chief Executive Officer of Minnesota-based HealthPartners in mid-2017 after a very successful 15-year career. HealthPartners is the largest, consumer-governed, nonprofit health care organization in the nation. The company incorporates both health care delivery, with 1,600 physicians and 6 hospitals, and a health plan covering 1.5 million members. Under her leadership and direction, HealthPartners experienced record growth and is recognized as a national leader in the health care industry. Prior to joining HealthPartners, Ms. Brainerd held senior level positions with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, including Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. She was also Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Blue Plus.
Ms. Brainerd grew up in St. Paul and has been actively involved in the Twin Cities community for many years. She is one of the founding CEOs and former Chair of the Itasca Project, a group of 40 government, civic and business leaders addressing the issues that impact long-term economic growth, including jobs, education, transportation, and economic disparities. She is previous chair of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank and currently serves on the boards of Minnesota Life/Securian, Bush Foundation and Stryker, Inc., Bremer Financial Corporation and Minnesota Public Radio. Ms. Brainerd holds a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of St. Thomas, and a Bachelor-of-Arts degree from the University of Minnesota.
For more information about Frazier Healthcare Partners, visit the company’s website at https://www.frazierhealthcare.com/ .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005163/en/
Frazier Healthcare Partners
Carol Eckert
Carol.eckert@frazierhealthcare.com
Source: Frazier Healthcare Partners