BEDFORD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Kaleido Biosciences , a clinical-stage biotechnology company developing novel chemistries to unlock the power of the human microbiome, today announced the appointment of Wendy Arnold as senior vice president of human resources. Ms. Arnold, who brings more than 20 years of experience in human resources to Kaleido, will report directly to chief executive officer and chair, Michael Bonney.
“We are excited to have someone with Wendy’s experience in building HR functions and programs in the biopharmaceutical industry joining Kaleido,” said Mr. Bonney. "Wendy will lead our efforts to attract, develop and retain top talent to support our growth and innovative approach to the microbiome. She will also play an important role in designing initiatives that help foster our dynamic culture and continue to make Kaleido an engaging place to work.”
Most recently, Ms. Arnold was head of the HR business partnership function at Moderna Therapeutics, and helped lead the HR organization during a period of significant growth, including implementing talent and engagement initiatives, compensation framework and benefits program enhancements. Prior to that, she was at Celgene Avilomics Research (formerly Avila Therapeutics) where she was responsible for building and developing the HR infrastructure for the company’s early research and development division. She also held senior HR positions at Inotek Pharmaceuticals and Amylin Pharmaceuticals. Ms. Arnold received her Bachelor of Science degree from Colorado State University.
About Kaleido Biosciences
Kaleido Biosciences is a clinical-stage biotechnology company engaged in the development of novel chemistries that unlock the power of the microbiome to revolutionize health. The Company has built the first R&D engine to systematically create, discover, and develop interventions that activate metabolic processes in the microbiome to treat disease and maintain health. Since its founding in 2015 by Flagship VentureLabs, Kaleido has advanced candidate products into clinical studies across programs in rare genetic diseases, oncology and infectious disease, and has generated more than 3,000 days of human clinical data. The Company is also creating consumer products that optimize the microbiome's natural roles in promoting health. For more information, please visit: http://www.kaleido.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103005394/en/
Kaleido Biosciences
Amy Reilly, 617-890-5721
amy.reilly@kaleido.com
Source: Kaleido Biosciences