SANTA MONICA, Calif., Jan. 10, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Unreel.me , a leading platform for networks and publishers launching OTT streaming services, today announced it has raised $1.5 million in Pre-Series A financing led by Michael Kelly , CEO of IoT Broadband, LLC, and former executive at DISH Network and Blockbuster, alongside a select group of media-focused angel investors. Previous investors included Digital Ignition, Vineyard Point Associates, Poise Ventures and several other media-focused angel investors.
As part of the financing, Unreel.me has appointed Kelly to its board of directors along with John Pavia , Executive Vice President of Business & Corporate Development at LogicSource, a Bain Capital Ventures portfolio company based in Norwalk, Conn. Over the last 20 years, Pavia has played a pivotal role in the growth of several early-stage and mature companies.
The financing will be used to expand the team, support the growth of Unreel’s O&O and partner streaming services, and scale the company to support larger industry leading partners.
Unreel builds big data-focused OTT apps and sites for video networks as an alternative to traditional video distribution methods such as satellite and cable TV. The platform gives publishers full control over their content, providing them with a centralized hub to manage their data, content and users across multiple apps.
Unreel’s strength is the ability to allow networks to launch OTT streaming services for multiple brands across Web, iOS, tvOS, Roku, Android, XUMO, Vewd, and SmartTV apps in a matter of weeks.
In addition to funding, Unreel has also recently secured four U.S. patents focused on Artificial Intelligence known internally as Bumblebee. Bumblebee crawls the web for time-stamped comments surrounding videos in Unreel’s system. To date, more than 50 million points of data around this type of engagement have been indexed by the Unreel A.I.
“Unreel’s belief is that the future of media and entertainment will evolve from the traditional satellite and cable TV model to look much more like the internet, where content moves seamlessly to consumers wherever and whenever they want it,” said Dan Goikhman , CEO of Unreel. “With this funding, we can continue to grow the company’s technology platform to universally onboard and distribute content, enabling a frictionless distribution of content.”
The OTT market is booming as content owners start to think about building their distribution channels. With $25 billion in annual revenue, the OTT industry is predicted to exceed $64 billion in the next four years. In fact, Juniper Research predicts total global revenues of $120 billion by 2022 . Brands who partner with Unreel ensure they’re staying ahead of the game in the OTT video market, as they are given access to valuable tools to help them succeed.
About Unreel.me
Unreel Entertainment is a technology driven video streaming company focused on turnkey OTT distribution with a powerful video player for the world’s best video experience. Where Netflix, Amazon, Hulu, and others are focused on building portals or "walled gardens,” our belief is that media and entertainment will evolve from the traditional cable model to look more like the internet where content moves seamlessly to consumers wherever and whenever they want it.
Unreel was launched in 2015 by advertising and media veterans Dan Goikhman , Krish Arvapally , Ryan James and Akshay Arvapally . The team has a track record of pioneering advertising and media companies, including a number of large exits.
About IoT Broadband, LLC
IoT Broadband, LLC, is a Denver-based technology and internet-of-things investment company, founded by former DISH Network Executive Vice President and Blockbuster President Michael Kelly. The company holds investments in commerce and technology solution companies including AlphaBay, LLC , ( www.alphabay.com ), a SaaS, Cloud and enterprise point-of-sale technology; Spindle, Inc . (OTCQB:SPDL) ( www.spindle.com ), a merchant and retail unified commerce solutions provider; Unreel.me , an enabler of video streaming services for network and content providers, and Yowza!! ( www.yowzarewards.com ) which offers eCoupons and merchant loyalty rewards programs.
Press Contacts: Unreel.me - Andrew Wight, 646-480-0356, andrew@publicize.com IoT Broadband - Mindi Ringdahl, mindi@iotbroadband.com
Source: IoT Broadband