TYSONS, Va., Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- WorkHarmony, Inc announced today the launch of a new operating unit, A6 Staffing , dedicated to the creation of meaningful employment opportunities for diverse communities, with an emphasis on those with disabilities and veterans.
Alex Murphy, WorkHarmony's CEO, said, "Our mission at WorkHarmony is to serve people that struggle to find their next career opportunity. Through A6 Staffing, we will deliver on this mission through a white glove service specifically seeking to help companies that are building more inclusive and accommodating workforces to find, attract, and hire those with disabilities, veterans, and other diverse groups of highly qualified candidates. We are extremely excited to have Patrick Grant in the role of President and General Manager to lead this newly forming team!"
A6 Staffing will work with local partners and organizations that are focused on building dynamic, diverse, and inclusive workforces. A6 provides career development, recruiting, and job placement services for all professional service categories.
Patrick Grant has been named A6 Staffing President. Grant, a business leader in the D.C. market for the past 10 years, will be responsible for the daily operations and customer experience at A6 Staffing.
"More than 19 million working age Americans have a work disability; millions of service disabled veterans lack new career opportunities. I am both honored and ecstatic to be in a position that will create career opportunities for those that are often forgotten and most deserving," said Patrick Grant, President of A6 Staffing.
ABOUT WORKHARMONY, INC
WorkHarmony builds and operates services focused on enabling the workforce of the future. With predicted job losses totaling as many as 800 million jobs or more by 2030 due to robotics, AI, and automation, WorkHarmony's services are built with an emphasis to help bridge the skills gap for workers and employers, create accommodating and inclusive workplaces, and to create new opportunities for people in the still forming knowledge-based economy.
If you would like more information about A6 Staffing ( www.a6staffing.com ), please contact Patrick Grant at 703-382-6196 or email at 189431@email4pr.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/workharmony-inc-launches-new-division-a6-staffing-to-address-inclusion-and-accommodations-in-workforce-recruiting-300588699.html
SOURCE WorkHarmony, Inc.