2012 COMMENTS WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump, in his first State of the Union address , called for major, bipartisan deals on infrastructure and immigration, while reversing his predecessor’s vow to close the Guantanamo Bay prison facility for suspected terrorists.
The president lauded the improving economy and rising stock market, but warned about continuing threats from North Korea.
Mr. Trump steered clear of direct attacks on political opponents, while holding open the possibility of bipartisan cooperation in an era that he dubbed “our new American moment” for rebuilding the country culturally and economically.
“Tonight, I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek out common ground and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people,” Mr. Trump said.
Related
Recap: Trump’s State of the Union Address Capital Journal: Trump Tries Taking On a New Role as Optimist Trump Signs Executive Order to Keep Guantanamo Bay Open Democrats Spurn Trump’s Vision of America Transcript of the State of the Union Address Analysis: Trump’s Frequency of Superlatives Immigration Talks Grow on Capitol Hill, but No Deals Judge Criticizes Trump and Sessions in DACA Hearing Tonight’s Designated Survivor Is Sonny Perdue As Trump Speaks, News on Guantanamo U.S. No Longer Considering Cha for Ambassador to South Korea However, his framing of the immigration debate, with a heavy emphasis on protecting victims of crimes committed by people living in the country illegally, may make reaching a deal with Democrats on the issue harder.
A major sticking point is how the Trump administration will deal with undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents, who are nicknamed Dreamers. The president has said he wants to protect them and has proposed a path to citizenship for them in a White House framework for a deal. But in his address, he appropriated the Dreamers language and reframed it for his own purpose.
“My duty, and the sacred duty of every elected official in this chamber, is to defend Americans—to protect their safety, their families, their communities, and their right to the American Dream. Because Americans are dreamers too,” he said.
In the Democratic response, Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D., Mass.) urged opponents of the Trump administration to continue rallying against a policy agenda that, in his view, presents Americans with “one false choice after another.”
In a speech that was months in the making, Mr. Trump took a tough stance toward North Korea and terrorist threats overseas. He announced that he was ordering officials to keep open the Guantanamo Bay prison, reversing a 2009 order by President Barack Obama to close the facility.
Mr. Trump punctuated his points by introducing guests he had invited to attend. He mentioned the family of Otto Warmbier, an American college student who was imprisoned in North Korea and died shortly after his release. His parents were seated in first lady Melania Trump’s box.
He cited the death as an example of the regime’s depravity. He also invited to the speech a defector from North Korea to further make the point.
“We need only look at the depraved character of the North Korean regime to understand the nature of the nuclear threat it could pose to America and our allies,” he said.
The largest question marks about the speech centered on how he would work to enact fresh legislative goals, including an infrastructure program and immigration legislation, in the face of testy relationships on Capitol Hill and divisive debates within and between the two parties.
Mr. Trump made the case that more secure borders would support American workers and immigrant communities already in the country, citing murders in the U.S. of teenagers by MS-13 gang members as one example, pointing to two dead girls’ parents in the audience.
“The United States is a compassionate nation.…But as president of the United States, my highest loyalty, my greatest compassion, and my constant concern is for America’s children, America’s struggling workers, and America’s forgotten communities,” Mr. Trump said.
He went on to reiterate the terms of a proposal his White House had outlined last week: offering a pathway to citizenship for 1.8 million young immigrants in exchange for limits on family-based immigration, an end to the visa lottery program, and $25 billion to expand a barrier on the southern border.
Democrats and some Republicans took pains after the speech to make clear that they don’t think of the Dreamers in the same terms as members of the MS-13 gang.
“No one in the world defends them,” Sen. Dick Durbin (D., Ill.) said of the gang members.
Mr. Trump again called on Congress to pass a bill that would underwrite a program to repair the nation’s roads, bridges and ports, relying on a blend of state and local government funding along with private investment that would add up to $1.5 trillion.
Republicans said that Mr. Trump had extended a hand to Democrats and that it was up to the minority party to decide whether they accept Mr. Trump’s offer of working together.
The U.S. Capitol on Tuesday, before President Trump was to deliver his first State of the Union address Photo: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg News “That’s going to be up to the people in the room,” said Rep. Tom Emmer (R., Minn.). “He did a fantastic job of putting that out there—now the question is, Are they interested in doing it?”
But infrastructure spending proved to be problematic for some Republicans.
“We’ve got to be very mindful, though, of balancing the need for infrastructure against the need not to incur more debt,” said Sen. John Kennedy (R., La.).
Newsletter Sign-up Mr. Trump embraced opportunities to describe his year as record-setting, including his appointment of conservative judges and a rising stock market.
He emphasized support for the American flag and standing for the national anthem, in an issue that has become a cultural flashpoint amid protests over policing practices.
And he squeezed in remarks on a handful of specific other issues including health care, which had dominated his first year in office, when he applauded Republicans’ repeal of the requirement that most Americans obtain health insurance or pay a penalty as removing “the core” of the Affordable Care Act.
The address came just over a month after the passage of a sweeping tax law and after a year of big gains in the stock market, though share prices have fallen sharply this week.
His appearance also came on the heels of a three-day partial government shutdown and before a Congress that has faced standoffs over immigration and the investigations into Trump associates’ ties to Russia during the 2016 election . Another shutdown looms next week if lawmakers can’t resolve a rolling dispute over the budget.
Through it all, Mr. Trump’s approval rating has fallen to 39%, according to a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, down from 44% when he took office.
Mr. Trump’s penchant for attacking those who oppose his policies has added to the acrimony; he dubbed Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer “cryin’ Chuck” on Twitter during the shutdown fight. A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll in December asked people whether Mr. Trump had made “division” and “partisanship” better or worse. Some 58% said he had made things worse; 9%, better.
—Felicia Schwartz contributed to this article.
Write to Peter Nicholas at peter.nicholas@wsj.com , Louise Radnofsky at louise.radnofsky@wsj.com and Siobhan Hughes at siobhan.hughes@wsj.com
Appeared in the January 31, 2018, print edition as 'Trump Hails ‘New American Moment’.'