LOUISVILLE, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Office Evolution , the nation’s leading franchisor of private office space , shared office and co-working space , conference rooms, and other business services , announced today that William L. Edmundson, IV, Chief Operating Officer of Office Evolution, has joined the Global Workspace Association’s Board of Directors and will assume the association’s Treasurer’s role.
Edmundson just recently joined Office Evolution and has deep experience in the co-working and hospitality industries having served in both consulting and senior leadership roles with several national brands, including: President and CEO of Abby Executive Suites; President of Choice Hotels’ Cambria Suites brand; and Vice President of Brand Performance and Support for Hilton Hotels’ Hampton Inns brand.
“I am honored to join GWA’s Board of Directors and will be delighted to contribute to the association’s vision aimed at advancing the global workspace industry,” said Edmundson. “GWA provides valuable resources, support and strategic guidance to operators in the workspace industry and I look forward to providing strategic insight as a board member and financial oversight as Treasurer.”
About Us
Founded in 2003, Office Evolution is a Colorado-based national B2B shared office franchise offering co-working spaces, virtual office services and fully furnished offices and suites. The Company now has more than 125 locations open or under development across the country. This unprecedented growth is part of the reason that the company was recognized on the 2017 Inc. 5000 list and that Entrepreneur Magazine ranked Office Evolution #106 on their coveted 2017 Franchise 500 and #4 on their 2017 Top New Franchise and Business Opportunity list. Office Evolution franchisees come from a diverse group of backgrounds and the company is increasingly attracting multi-unit franchisees in their system. Visit www.officeevolution.com for more company information or for franchising opportunities www.officeevolutionfranchise.com or call 877.475.6300.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180126005624/en/
Media Inquiries:
Melrose Consulting for Office Evolution
Melodye R. Demastus, 614-579-9192
mdemastus@melroseconsulting.com
or
Franchising and Company Inquiries:
Office Evolution
Eileen Proctor, 303-376-6220
eproctor@officeevolution.com
Source: Office Evolution