0 COMMENTS A video featuring celebrity Harry Shum Jr. for McDonald's McCafe is one of the many examples of Whosay's brand marketing efforts. Photo: Whosay Viacom Inc., VIAB 0.27% the owner of MTV and Nickelodeon, said it has agreed to acquire influencer marketing shop Whosay Inc., joining the list of media companies investing in advertising services.
Whosay, an eight-year-old shop with around 70 employees, had early success with a platform that helps celebrities manage their social media presence. The shop also helps brands create and distribute digital content, as well as connects brands with influencers who tend to have large fan bases. Whosay’s brand clients include marketing heavyweights like McDonald’s , Coca-Cola and Macy’s .
Viacom plans to utilize Whosay to help brands create campaigns that are consistent across digital platforms as well as TV, and those services will help the company generate incremental revenue, said Viacom’s ad sales chief, Sean Moran. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
Viacom, which also owns the BET and Comedy Central cable networks, has been helping brands create social content around tent-pole events like MTV’s Video Music Awards, but it wants to create more content more often, he said. “We needed some engine to allow us to do this on a 52-week basis,” he said.
The idea is to take a client’s marketing goal and within as little as two days come up with a creative concept, find high-profile talent to feature, and distribute the content through TV and digital platforms, said Mr. Moran. Viacom will generate “production revenue plus ad revenue” in the process, he said.
“We’ll be able to play that solutions role that’s not going to take six weeks to two months,” he said.
Facebook Post Whosay raised about $30 million in funding from investors including Comcast Ventures, Greylock Partners, Amazon, Primary Venture Partners, Tencent and CAA, according to a person familiar with the company. CAA was also a Whosay co-founder.
The shop will remain largely independent within Viacom and work closely with the company’s Marketing & Partner Solutions group, alongside Viacom Velocity and the Digital Studios group.
For years, media companies have invested in ad and marketing services capabilities to try to squeeze out more revenue beyond traditional 30-second TV commercials or standard display ads, particularly as consumers spend more time on their phones and social-media platforms.
But it has also created more competition for ad agencies attempting to hold onto their clients’ shrinking budgets. Vice was early to the trend when it acquired digital agency Carrot Creative years ago. More recently, the New York Times acquired design shop Fake Love, and the Financial Times took a controlling stake in content marketing firm Alpha Grid.
“We’re not looking to compete with agencies,” said Mr. Moran. “We see what we do as a complement to them. They’re building multimillion-dollar creative campaigns. We’re executing in much smaller ways with clients, but very effective [ways].”
Write to Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.com