BRYN MAWR, Pa., Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation (NASDAQ:BMTC) (the “Corporation”), parent of The Bryn Mawr Trust Company (" BMT "), has announced the appointment of Jennifer Dempsey Fox as President of BMT’s Wealth Management Division effective December 15, 2017. Ms. Fox will report directly to Chief Executive Officer, Frank Leto .
Bryn Mawr Trust Appoints Jennifer Dempsey Fox, JD, MBA, CFP® As President of Bryn Mawr Trust Wealth Management Division
"Jennifer is a seasoned wealth management professional who possesses the rare combination of strategic thought leadership and excellent business execution and we are thrilled to welcome her as the new President of Bryn Mawr Trust’s Wealth Management Division,” said Frank Leto, continuing, “her leadership style and technical background align with the breadth and capabilities that exist in our wealth division making her uniquely qualified to lead the group to new heights.”
Ms. Fox has more than 23 years of experience in wealth management, working with and leading teams focused on developing and delivering financial solutions for high net worth individuals, families, and institutions. She joins BMT from PNC Asset Management Group where she was Executive Vice President and Chief Wealth Strategist. Ms. Fox has held positions with J.P. Morgan Private Wealth Management, the Aresty Institute for Executive Education at The Wharton School, Wachovia, and Deloitte & Touche LLP. She was the co-founder of Brave Spirits and the Brave Spirts Foundation producing American-made spirits and donating a portion of the profits from each sale to military charities.
Ms. Fox earned her Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Villanova University, her Masters of Business Administration from The Fox School of Business at Temple University, and a Juris Doctor from the Temple University School of Law. Additionally, she is a Certified Financial Planner. Active in the community, she is a member of the Philadelphia Estate Planning Council and the Forum of Executive Women. In 2015, Fox was named to Private Asset Management's list of "The 50 Most Influential Women in Private Wealth." She has been admitted to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. She resides locally with her husband and two children.
Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation (NASDAQ:BMTC), including its principal subsidiary, The Bryn Mawr Trust Company (founded in 1889; headquartered in Bryn Mawr, Pa.), is a locally managed financial services company providing retail and commercial banking, trust administration and wealth management, and insurance solutions. Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation has $3.5 billion in corporate assets and $12.4 billion in wealth assets under management, administration, supervision, and brokerage (as of 9/30/17). Today, BMT operates 37 full service retail bank locations in Montgomery, Chester, Delaware, Philadelphia and Berks Counties in Pennsylvania, New Castle County in Delaware and Camden County in New Jersey. For more information, visit www.bmtc.com .
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND SAFE HARBOR
This press release contains statements which, to the extent that they are not recitations of historical fact may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements may include financial and other projections as well as statements regarding the Corporation’s future plans, objectives, performance, revenues, growth, profits, operating expenses or the Corporation’s underlying assumptions. The words “may,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “likely,” “possibly,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “target,” “potentially,” “probably,” “outlook,” “predict,” “contemplate,” “continue,” “plan,” “forecast,” “project,” “are optimistic,” “are looking,” “are looking forward” and “believe” or other similar words and phrases may identify forward-looking statements. Persons reading this press release are cautioned that such statements are only predictions, and that the Corporation’s actual future results or performance may be materially different.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, many of which are beyond the Corporation’s control, could cause our actual results, events or developments, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, events or developments expressed, implied or anticipated by such forward-looking statements, and so our business and financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Such factors include, among others, our need for capital, our ability to control operating costs and expenses, and to manage loan and lease delinquency rates; the credit risks of lending activities and overall quality of the composition of our loan, lease and securities portfolio; the impact of economic conditions, consumer and business spending habits, and real estate market conditions on our business and in our market area; changes in the levels of general interest rates, deposit interest rates, or net interest margin and funding sources; changes in banking regulations and policies and the possibility that any banking agency approvals we might require for certain activities will not be obtained in a timely manner or at all or will be conditioned in a manner that would impair our ability to implement our business plans; changes in accounting policies and practices; the inability of key third-party providers to perform their obligations to us; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; competition in our marketplace; war or terrorist activities; our ability to complete anticipated acquisitions and any material differences in the actual financial results, cost savings and revenue enhancements associated with our acquisitions; and other factors as described in our securities filings. All forward-looking statements and information set forth herein are based on Management’s current beliefs and assumptions as of the date hereof and speak only as of the date they are made. The Corporation does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.
For a complete discussion of the assumptions, risks and uncertainties related to our business, you are encouraged to review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any changes in risk factors that we may identify in our quarterly or other reports subsequently filed with the SEC.
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Frank Leto, President, CEO
610.581.4730
Tina S. McDonald, SVP
610.581.4875
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/d4de6515-03e0-4019-bd7d-840135c1bf7c
Source: BMT