NAPA VALLEY, Calif., Jan. 2, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Fantesca today announced that DLynn Proctor, former winemaking ambassador for Penfolds, will join Fantesca as director, effective immediately.
As a prominent figure in the beverage and hospitality industry with more than 15 years of experience, Proctor comes to Fantesca with extensive knowledge of fine and rare wine brokerage, corporate sales, marketing, and strategy.
"We are thrilled to welcome DLynn to our team. He's a tremendous talent with outstanding judgement and has earned his reputation as one of the most respected Sommeliers in the world," said Duane Hoff, Fantesca's Proprietor. "Fantesca has achieved a milestone of exclusivity where 97% of our wines go to our allocation list and their friends. The next natural step is to deepen and expand those relationships. We believe DLynn can help us tell our story and introduce more people to Fantesca Estate & Winery."
Proctor was named 'Best Sommelier in America' by Wine and Spirits Magazine in 2008, a finalist in The Chaîne des Rôtisseurs Société Mondiale du Vin 'Best Sommelier in America Competition' in 2008 and 2009, and was named to the National RUDD Scholars of 2011. He has been featured in Wine Spectator, Wine & Spirits Magazine, Everyday with Rachael Ray, Decanter, The Tasting Panel, WineSearcher, Huffington Post, The New York Times, and GQ Magazine. He was also named to Wine Enthusiasts 'Top 40 Under 40' in 2014.
Proctor's public notability soared in 2012 as one of the four featured subjects in the internationally acclaimed wine documentary 'SOMM', covering the three-year journey through six countries of filming to becoming a coveted Master Sommelier. A follow up film 'SOMM: Into the Bottle', was released in 2015, and the third installment SOMM 3, is set to be released in 2018.
About Fantesca Estate & Winery: Fantesca Estate & Winery is a family owned, limited production, boutique winery located in the Spring Mountain appellation of Napa Valley. Proprietors Susan and Duane Hoff founded Fantesca in 2004. Fantesca is world-renowned winemaker Heidi P. Barrett's first new project following her success at Screaming Eagle. With only 3,500 cases of wine produced annually, Fantesca's wines are available exclusively to Allocation Members, guests of the winery, and at select restaurants.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sommelier-dlynn-proctor-joins-fantesca-as-director-300576273.html
SOURCE Fantesca Estate & Winery