SANTA MONICA, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Hawke Media, the fastest growing digital marketing agency in the country, has acquired Execute.LA, a growth marketing shop in Venice, CA that specializes in funnel optimization and growth hacking for early stage consumer products and startups. Execute.LA was co-founded by Hank Leber and Wesley Clock and has employees located in the US and in Europe.
"These days it's hard for early stage and growing companies to find effective agency resources without having to commit to a year of service or paying high monthly fees," says Leber. "With that in mind, we're thrilled to work with Hawke Media. This is a win for both Execute and for our clients, as they will get a great boost from the resources and expertise Hawke brings."
With this acquisition, Hawke Media continues its trend of investing in forward-thinking marketing practices and pushing the boundaries of what's possible for its clients. Hawke Media has integrated cutting edge technologies like Facebook Live and Instagram Live in its client strategies, and successfully experimented with physical retail concepts with The Nest, a co-retail space on Abbot Kinney in Venice, CA, that featured brands who lived exclusively online up to then.
Notable Execute.LA clients coming to Hawke Media include Bruno Mars's SelvaRey Rum , and DrumChannel , the star-studded learning platform created by DW Drums Founder, Don Lombardi.
"Execute.LA has done some incredible work for a number of really impressive brands and we are excited to be bringing both the team and their clients into the Hawke Media family," says Erik Huberman, Founder & CEO of Hawke Media.
For more information about Hawke Media go to www.hawkemedia.com
For press contact:
Janie LaFont
Public Relations
Hawke Media LLC
Direct: 1 (310) 923-4378
Office: 1 (310) 451-7295
janie@hawkemedia.com
About Hawke Media
Hawke Media is a full-service Outsourced CMO headquartered in Santa Monica, CA. Founded by serial entrepreneur and digital marketing expert Erik Huberman in 2014, Hawke Media has grown from seven employees to over 120, and has serviced 600+ brands. Clients include Raden, BeautyCon, Bottlekeeper, Alibaba, The Ridge Wallet, Buscemi, Red Bull, Evite, Verizon Wireless, HP. Hawke Media has been valued at $60 million and recently placed #110 on the Inc. 5000 List of "Fastest Growing Companies" of 2017. Other recognitions include CIOReview's "Top 20 Most Promising Digital Marketing Solution Providers in 2017", 2017 Great Place to Work certification, and the gold STEVIE Award for "Company of the Year" in the 2017 American Business Awards. www.hawkemedia.com
Related Links
http://www.hawkemedia.com
http://www.twitter.com/gohawke
http://www.facebook.com/hawkemedia
https://www.instagram.com/hawkemedia
https://www.linkedin.com/company/hawkemedia
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hawke-media-acquires-executela-300590526.html
SOURCE Hawke Media