SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Ursus, Inc . today announced that Don James, Jr ., former chief executive officer of Bear Data Solutions, Inc. was appointed to the company's board of directors.
"Don, or 'DJ', has extraordinary business expertise in the technology services market and brings a wealth of experience and insight on how to manage and scale technology services companies. As we enter into our third year of operation, we are keen to expand our portfolio of services to complement our rapidly growing staffing practice and we are delighted to have DJ on board to provide insight and guidance as we execute on our 2018 plan and beyond. He brings a wealth of experience working with enterprise customers as well as the insights that come from running a successful large technology services company and a fast-emerging startup. He will be a great addition to our board," said Jon Beck, CEO and Founder of Ursus.
James was most recently CEO and Founder of BEAR Data Solutions, Inc., a San Francisco based system integration company that was acquired by DataLink in October, 2014 . While at BEAR Data Solutions, the company achieved growth awards from Inc. Magazine's Fast Growth 5000 for six consecutive years, offering a suite of technology product and supporting professional and staffing services to some of the fastest growth and Fortune 500 companies on the West Coast.
Previously, James held a number of sales and marketing leadership positions at leading system integration companies FusionStorm and Cat Technology.
"I am honored to join the Ursus board and work with this exceptional team!" James said. "In only a few years Ursus has established itself as a formidable provider in the staffing market, securing a marquee client base comparable or deeper than firms in business many years longer than Ursus. I look forward to sharing my experiences and contributing to the future direction and growth of this up and coming company," said James.
James received his BA in Political Science from the University of California, Berkeley and his BA in Legal Studies from the University of Oxford. He currently is CEO of James Properties and actively serves on a number of other board of directors.
About Ursus:
Our global IT Staffing Services and Systems Integration team intelligently connects the market's most qualified candidates to our Global 1000 and high-growth startups alike. We place the highest priority on understanding the unique needs of our clients first; ensuring a mutual, best-fit success and integration of people product and solutions. Our relentless attention to detail is the hallmark of our organization and we pride ourselves in a high-touch, customer-centric approach, offering our clients unmatched quality, responsiveness, and flexibility. The company is headquartered in Reno, NV with offices in San Francisco, Silicon Valley, Los Angeles, India and the United Kingdom. For more information visit us at ursusinc.com or contact us at info@ursusinc.com or 877-66-URSUS.
Media contact:
Daun Nisbett
188476@email4pr.com
415-529-4560
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ursus-adds-industry-veteran-300579893.html
SOURCE Ursus, Inc.