THE WOODLANDS, Texas, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:LXRX) today announced that Lonnel Coats, President and Chief Executive Officer, will present at the following conference:
36 th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference on Tuesday, January 9, 2018 at 8:30 a.m. PST in San Francisco, CA.
A live audio webcast for this conference will be available in the “Investors” section of the Lexicon website at www.lexpharma.com/ . An archived version of the webcast will be available on the website until January 31, 2018.
About Lexicon Pharmaceuticals
Lexicon is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that is applying a unique approach to gene science based on Nobel Prize-winning technology to discover and develop precise medicines for patients with serious, chronic conditions. Through its Genome5000™ program, Lexicon scientists have studied the role and function of nearly 5,000 genes over the last 20 years and have identified more than 100 protein targets with significant therapeutic potential in a range of diseases. Through the precise targeting of these proteins, Lexicon is pioneering the discovery and development of innovative medicines to safely and effectively treat disease. In addition to its first commercial product, XERMELO ® (telotristat ethyl), Lexicon has a pipeline of promising drug candidates in clinical and pre-clinical development in diabetes and metabolism and neuropathic pain. For additional information please visit www.lexpharma.com .
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains “ ,” including statements relating to Lexicon’s growth and future operating results, discovery and development of products, strategic alliances and intellectual property, as well as other matters that are not historical facts or information. All are based on management’s current assumptions and expectations and involve risks, uncertainties and other important factors, specifically including those relating to Lexicon’s ability to meet its capital requirements, successfully conduct preclinical and clinical development of its drug candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, achieve its operational objectives, obtain patent protection for its discoveries and establish strategic alliances, as well as additional factors relating to manufacturing, intellectual property rights, and the therapeutic or commercial value of its drug candidates, that may cause Lexicon’s actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such . Information identifying such important factors is contained under “Risk Factors” in Lexicon’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Lexicon undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such , whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
For Investor Inquiries :
Kimberly Lee, D.O.
Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Strategy
Lexicon Pharmaceuticals
(281) 863-3383
klee@lexpharma.com
For Media Inquiries :
Chas Schultz
Senior Director, Corporate Communications and Advocacy
Lexicon Pharmaceuticals
(281) 863-3421
cschultz@lexpharma.com
Source:Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.