NEW YORK, Cennarium , one of the largest streaming services for theatrical productions, has added senior media executive Marcus Vinicius Ribeiro to its corporate board of advisers to help guide the company's senior management and board of directors on business development, acquisitions and international operations.
Cennarium has also moved its U.S. headquarters to the Paley Center for Media at 25 West 52nd Street, New York, NY 10019. The arrangement for Cennarium to locate at the Paley Center was coordinated by Ribeiro who is a member of the Paley Media Council.
Ribeiro is the Principal for the Americas of PRISA, one of the world's leading media groups in the Spanish and Portuguese speaking world, creating, producing and distributing content in the area of education, culture, news and information and entertainment. He is responsible for representing all the institutional, commercial, legal and governmental interests of PRISA in the Americas. He also represents the company in several humanitarian, diversity, human-rights, environmental and corporate social responsibility matters. Before joining PRISA's senior executive team, Ribeiro was chief operating officer and chief legal and corporate officer of the investment boutique Violy & Company, a strategic investment and advisory firm specializing in mergers and acquisitions with extensive experience in the Ibero-American market.
"Cennarium is poised to be the largest streaming service for the performing arts and I am looking forward to working with its senior management toward that end," said Ribeiro. "Streaming has changed the face of the media business and the way audiences consume content. Cennarium is leading this evolution in the performing arts arena which has until now not had a viable platform and revenue model for distributing its content globally through streaming."
Cennarium America Inc. is a producer, licensor and online platform for theatrical content, offering subscribers a wide selection of performances from around the world in high-definition encompassing a variety of genres including drama, dance, comedy, music and opera. The company is headquartered in New York and has offices in France and Brazil. More information is available at Cennarium.com and on social media (Twitter: @cennarium , Instagram: @CennariumUSA , Facebook: CennariumUSA ).
Contact: Steve Honig, The Honig Company, LLC, 8180-986-4300, press@honigllc.com
Related Links
Cennarium
 with multimedia: releases/theatrical-streaming-platform-and-subscription-service-cennarium-adds-marcus-ribeiro-to-corporate-board-of-advisers-300587817.html
SOURCE Cennarium Americas Inc.