WALTHAM, Mass., Jan. 04, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- NeuroMetrix, Inc. (Nasdaq:NURO) announced today that Shai N. Gozani M.D., Ph.D., President and Chief Executive Officer, will participate in a panel at the Digital Health Summit at CES 2018. The panel, “The Vicious Spiral: How Will the Opioid Crisis End?”, will take place on January 10 from 10:45 - 11:15 AM (Venetian, Level 4, Lando 4304). The panelists will discuss prescription opioid abuse and how technology can impact this crises through innovations in pain management and addiction recovery.
About International CES
The International Consumer Electronics Show (International CES) showcases more than 3,800 exhibiting companies, including manufacturers, developers and suppliers of consumer technology hardware, content, technology delivery systems and more; a conference program with more than 300 conference sessions and more than 165K attendees from 150 countries.
For 50 years, CES has been the launch pad for new innovation and technology that has changed the world. Held in Las Vegas every year, it is the world's gathering place for all who thrive on the business of consumer technologies and where next-generation innovations are introduced to the marketplace.
About Quell
Quell ® is an advanced, wearable technology for treating chronic pain. It can be worn during the day while active and at night while sleeping. Quell is drug-free and has been cleared by the FDA for treatment of chronic pain without a prescription. Quell users can personalize and manage therapy discreetly via the Quell app. Quell also offers health tracking relevant to chronic pain sufferers including pain, sleep, activity, and gait. Quell users can synchronize their data with the Quell Health Cloud, which provides customized feedback and powers one of the world’s largest chronic pain databases. Quell is available online and through select retailers. Visit QuellRelief.com for more information.
About NeuroMetrix
NeuroMetrix is an innovation driven healthcare company combining neurostimulation and digital health to address chronic health conditions including chronic pain, diabetes, and sleep disorders. The company's lead product is Quell, an over-the-counter wearable therapeutic device for chronic pain. The company also markets DPNCheck®, a rapid point-of-care test for diabetic neuropathy, which is the most common long-term complication of Type 2 diabetes. For more information, please visit NeuroMetrix.com .
NeuroMetrix, Inc.
Thomas T. Higgins, 781-314-2761
SVP and Chief Financial Officer
neurometrix.ir@neurometrix.com
Source: NeuroMetrix, Inc.
Source:NeuroMetrix, Inc.