MISSION, Kan., Jan. 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Xact Data Discovery (XDD), a leading international provider of eDiscovery, data management and managed review services for law firms and corporations, announced today that it has been acquired by JLL Partners, a middle market private equity firm based in New York. As part of the transaction, JLL is partnering with XDD Founder and President Bob Polus. JLL will support Bob and his leadership team in the Company’s next phase of its growth as it continues to strengthen its market position as an industry leader and innovator within the eDiscovery and legal process outsourcing markets.
“As part of our growth strategy, finding an investment partner with a similar culture, strategic vision and focused energy was critical to our success,” said Bob Polus. “We look forward to advancing our common interests, experience and capital as we pursue additional acquisitions to add new locations and service capabilities.”
XDD has established itself as an industry leader in the eDiscovery market with a reputation for high-touch client service, fast turnaround times and deep domain expertise across a number of industries. XDD’s discovery experts bring a unique mix of insights across the lifecycle of client matters to alleviate “pain-points,” reduce costs, and drive predicable and reliable outcomes.
“We have been very impressed with Bob and the entire team at XDD during our discussions over the past year and believe the Company represents a compelling platform in the eDiscovery space at a time when the growing complexity of litigation has made outsourced service providers like XDD more necessary than ever,” said Frank Rodriguez, Managing Director at JLL Partners.
XDD is the fifth platform investment for JLL Partners Fund VII.
About Xact Data Discovery
Xact Data Discovery is a leading international provider of eDiscovery, data management and managed review services for law firms and corporations. XDD helps clients optimize their eDiscovery matters by orchestrating pristine communication between people, processes, technology and data.
XDD services include forensics, eDiscovery processing, Relativity hosting and managed review. XDD has 16 offices throughout the United States and two locations in India. XDD offers exceptional customer service with a commitment to responsive, transparent and timely communication to ensure clients remain informed throughout the entire discovery life cycle. Visit https://www.xactdatadiscovery.com/ for more information.
Press Contact:
Bob Lorum
Xact Data Discovery
951.378.1991
blorum@xactdatadiscovery.com
About JLL Partners
JLL Partners is a leading middle-market private equity firm with a 29-year track record of building and transforming businesses through its financial and operational expertise. Since its founding in 1988, JLL Partners has committed approximately $5 billion across seven funds. JLL Partners is a control investor and sources its deals from its deep network of industry contacts, applying its proven, value-oriented and growth-driven investment approach to provide limited partners with attractive risk-adjusted returns throughout all investment cycles. The firm is headquartered in New York. Visit https://www.jllpartners.com/ for more information.
Source: Xact Data Discovery