BATON ROUGE, La., Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Capitol City Produce Company, LLC today announced it has named Darin Arceneaux as President of the company effective immediately. The role recognizes the increasing complexity of the business as it continues to develop and execute its strategy for further growth.
Arceneaux joined the company in 2014 as Chief Operating Officer. He has provided leadership to significant initiatives including the recently announced acquisition of Table Fresh Foods, the expansion of the facilities from 39,000 to 90,000 square feet, the implementation of a new ERP system that ensures scalability for growth, the addition of new product lines including chocolates and cheeses, the strengthening of relationships with local growers, the attainment of a Safe Quality Foods level 3 rating for food safety and the building of an exceptional leadership team.
Paul Ferachi, owner of the company, stated, "This is an extraordinary time in the 71-year history of our family business. The need for exceptional leadership is clear as we build upon generations of hard work and effort. We have never been more enthusiastic about serving our customers extraordinarily well and building a rewarding future for our entire team."
Arceneaux commented, "These are exciting times at Capitol City. We are in the beginnings of executing an assertive growth plan that focuses on what is most important to our customers. It is an honor to provide leadership for our team."
ABOUT CAPITOL CITY PRODUCE®
Founded on April 24, 1947 by the Ferachi family, Capitol City Produce® has become the largest, and one of the most respected, providers of produce in the Gulf Coast region. The company is known for consistently delivering the highest quality produce with the highest standards for food safety as an Safe Quality Foods Level 3 food distribution center. In addition to an expansive line of produce, customers are supported with an extensive specialty line of products including specialty produce, local produce, local dairy, cheeses, frozen foods, imported fine chocolates and bakery items. The company has been recognized in 2017 as Company of the Year by the Baton Rouge Business Report. More information is available at www.CapitolCityProduce.com .
Contact: Heather Woods
504-400-0415
hwoods@ccapitolcityproduce.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/capitol-city-produce-names-darin-arceneaux-president-300590710.html
SOURCE Capitol City Produce Company, LLC