CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Disarm Therapeutics, a biotechnology company creating a new class of disease-modifying therapeutics for patients with axonal degeneration, a central driver of neurological disease, today announced that Thomas Engber, PhD, has joined as Senior Vice President and Head of Neuropharmacology and Translational Sciences.
Dr. Engber's work in neuroscience spans three decades and includes research and leadership positions at the National Institutes of Health, Cephalon, Pfizer, Biogen and most recently Takeda Pharmaceuticals, where he was responsible for evaluating new technologies and advancing the company's CNS portfolio through partnerships. Throughout his career, Dr. Engber has led teams bringing new therapeutics from discovery through clinical development. He is the author of more than 50 peer-reviewed articles and an inventor on numerous issued and pending patents.
"Tom is an established leader in neuroscience research and clinical development. He will play an important role on our leadership team, guiding our translational strategy as we advance Disarm's novel therapies into the clinic," said Rajesh Devraj, PhD, Chief Scientific Officer, Disarm Therapeutics.
Disarm is developing therapeutics to inhibit the SARM1 protein, identified by the company's scientific founders as the central driver of axonal degeneration. The breakdown of axons causes disability and disease progression in a broad range of chronic and acute diseases of the central, ocular, and peripheral nervous systems, including multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, glaucoma, and peripheral neuropathies. Based on this discovery, Disarm's goal is to pioneer breakthrough disease-modifying therapeutics for patients with neurological diseases by preventing axonal degeneration.
"I am excited to join the Disarm team as we deliver on the promise of this breakthrough therapeutic approach for patients with neurological diseases," said Dr. Engber.
About Disarm
Disarm Therapeutics is a biotechnology company that is creating a new class of disease-modifying therapeutics for patients with axonal degeneration, a central driver of neurological disease-causing disability and disease progression. By inhibiting the SARM1 protein, identified by the company's scientific founders as the central driver of axonal degeneration, these therapeutics may prevent the loss of axons in chronic and acute diseases of the central, ocular, and peripheral nervous systems. For a broad range of diseases including multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, glaucoma, and peripheral neuropathies, the therapeutic goal is to prevent further degeneration, stabilize disease, and allow for functional recovery. Disarm was founded by Atlas Venture, Dr. Jeffrey Milbrandt and Dr. Aaron DiAntonio of Washington University in St. Louis, and a team of exceptional scientists and drug developers committed to developing a new treatment paradigm for patients with neurological diseases. For more information, please visit www.disarmtx.com .
Contact:
Lissette Steele
media@disarmtx.com
+1.202.930.4762
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/disarm-therapeutics-appoints-thomas-engber-as-senior-vice-president-head-of-neuropharmacology-and-translational-sciences-300586569.html
SOURCE Disarm Therapeutics