NEW YORK, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Precision Value & Health today announced it is acquiring Insight Strategy Advisors (ISA), a New York-based leading market access consultancy supporting value demonstration, pricing, reimbursement, and distribution for biopharmaceutical companies. ISA will become part of Precision Xtract, the global market access consultancy within Precision Value & Health.
Over its 15-year operating history, ISA has prospered into a world-class global market access consultancy with a consistent track record of growth and long-tenured client relationships. The addition of ISA enhances Precision Xtract's existing strengths in market access strategy while strategically expanding expertise in quantitative pricing research, distribution, and contracting strategy. Leveraging existing analytics capabilities, the combination will also result in cutting-edge data harmonization and analytics offerings, guiding clients toward clinical and commercial success.
With more than 40 employees and headquartered in New York City, ISA is led by Harry Schiavi, president and CEO, and Stephen Reid, managing partner. Schiavi will join the Precision Xtract leadership team alongside managing partners Larry Blandford and Bruce Leavitt; Reid will continue in his role with a focus on overall business development. With the addition of ISA, Precision Xtract now has more than 140 professionals across the US, Canada, and Europe delivering essential global market access strategy, analytics, and data management services.
"We are very excited to have the Insight Strategy Advisors team join Precision Xtract," Blandford said. "Their team of specialists in market access deepens our ability to connect the critical elements of achieving global market access across evidence, economics, pricing, and access strategy. Moreover, we believe the combination will result in cutting-edge data harmonization and analytics that more precisely guide market access strategies."
Added Schiavi, "Those two business factors, combined with how well our guiding principles align culturally, add to our enthusiasm about furthering global market access solutions as part of Precision."
Equiteq, a leading provider of strategic and M&A advisory services to knowledge-intensive service firms, acted as exclusive financial advisor to ISA.
About Precision Xtract
Precision Xtract consists of established, industry-leading teams providing value evidence planning, health economics and outcomes research, global pricing, market access strategy, pull-through, and data management services. Assembled specifically to get to the heart of global market access matters through a wide array of solutions, Precision Xtract is constituted of top thought leaders with professional experiences in academia, pharma, consultancy, and as payer executives. For more information, visit precisionxtract.com .
About Insight Strategy Advisors
Founded in 2002, Insight Strategy Advisors is an industry-leading market access strategy consulting firm specializing in healthcare and the life sciences, with a particular emphasis on developing payer insights into the clinical and economic value of pharmaceuticals. ISA addresses the most difficult value demonstration, pricing, reimbursement, and distribution problems facing its clients and delivers novel and highly impactful solutions to these challenges.
About Precision Value & Health
Precision Value & Health comprises industry-leading business units Precision Xtract, Precision for Value, Precision Health Economics, and precisioneffect, representing a unique set of complementary services working in concert to help pharmaceutical and life sciences clients establish the clinical, economic, and humanistic value of innovative therapies to payers, healthcare professionals, and patients.
Media Contact:
Louis Landon
Precision Medicine Group Media Relations
310-984-7707
louis.landon@precisionmedicinegrp.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/precision-value--health-acquires-leading-market-access-consultancy-insight-strategy-advisors-300590071.html
SOURCE Precision Value & Health