Industry Veteran to Lead Transportation Management and Logistics Company, Tom Sanderson to Transition to Executive Chairman
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Transplace , a leading provider of transportation management services and logistics technology solutions, today announced that Frank McGuigan has been named chief executive officer. Tom Sanderson has transitioned to the role of executive chairman and will serve on Transplace’s board of directors.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006339/en/
Frank McGuigan named Transplace CEO (Photo: Business Wire)
“Transplace has experienced record growth in recent years and has made significant investments in its people, technology, as well as its presence in the United States, Mexico and Canada,” said McGuigan. “This investment, along with our ongoing commitment to provide exceptional transportation management, strategic capacity and cross-border logistics solutions to our growing customer base, will enable us to continue to execute upon our mission to deliver value and drive supply chain excellence for shippers doing business across North America – and the globe.”
McGuigan joined Transplace via its acquisition of SCO Logistics in April 2011, where he was CEO, and most recently served as the company’s president and chief operating officer, running all of sales and operations in North America.
“Since joining Transplace, Frank has shown exceptional leadership in helping Transplace grow into a leading provider of transportation management solutions and logistics technology, and this is the perfect time for him to become Transplace’s next chief executive officer,” added Sanderson.
About Transplace
Transplace is a North American non-asset based logistics services provider offering manufacturers, retailers, chemical and consumer packaged goods companies the optimal blend of logistics technology and transportation management services. The company is the premier provider of managed transportation, consulting & TMS solutions; and intermodal, truck brokerage, and cross-border trade services. With operations centers located throughout North America, Transplace delivers integrated solutions tailored to meet in-country and cross-border supply chain needs. The company is recognized among the elite 3PLs for its proven ability to deliver both rapid return on investment and consistent value to a customer base ranging from mid-market shippers to Fortune 500 companies.
Follow the company on Twitter, Facebook and the Transplace Industry Blog:
http://blog.transplace.com
https://logisticallyspeaking.transplace.com/
http://twitter.com/transplace
http://www.facebook.com/Transplace
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180108006339/en/
for Transplace
Stephen Dye
stephen@outlookmarketingsrv.com
312-957-8911
or
Jennifer Cortez
jennifer.cortez@transplace.com
972-731-4525
Source: Transplace