NEW YORK, Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ExL Events is excited to host two separate events this year that will deliver how to manage the complete life cycle of product complaints and master regulatory requirements to minimize the number and cost of product recalls.
The 2 nd Product Complaints Forum is taking place on March 26–27 in Philadelphia will provide insight on how to improve the management of product complaints for pharmaceutical and medical device products. Join us to hear over 20 industry professional s discuss exclusive case studies and industry trends. On day two, join two tracks that explore industry-specific challenges for the medical devices and pharma/biotech industries. As an attendee, you can jump between the different tracks to tailor your own learning experience to gain different perspectives and cover all of your most pressing needs.
Featured Speakers
Julii Lindquist , VP Quality and Regulatory, WESTERN ENTERPRISES Linda Lum, Team Lead Pharmacovigilance Science, Global Pharmacovigilance and Epidemiology, BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Lawrence Perruzza, Director/Head, Case Investigation and Resolution, ROCHE Sharon Perez, Ph.D., Director, Global Medical Safety, NOVOCURE Vaishali Shukla, Director, Due Diligence and Quality Integration, SHIRE
To see the full agenda, click here: https://goo.gl/Cj2Krt
To register and save 15%, click here: https://goo.gl/5RZ37p
The 2018 Product Recalls Forum , convening on May 21–22 in Herndon, VA, will not only go in depth with how to understand, anticipate, and prevent recalls, but also explore recent findings and the most common causes of recalls. Attendees will hear case studies, review FDA requirements and expectations, and leave the forum knowing how to tackle product recalls for both drugs and devices.
Featured Sessions
Methods and Strategies for a Recall Execution: Why Create a Recall Strategy
Joe Falvo , Senior Manager: Postmarket Risk Management, ORTHO CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS
FDA Keynote
Maureen M. Bernier, MME, PE , Biomedical Engineer, Recall Coordinator, FDA
Compounding Recall Process and Industry Trends
Melissa Stefko , Senior Director of Quality Assurance, WELLS PHARMACY NETWORK
Understand the Operations of Recalls and Field Actions
Katherine May , APM Predict Product Manager (XLP — Accelerated Leadership Program), GE HEALTHCARE
To see the full agenda, click here: https://goo.gl/DuFkLB
To register and save 15%, click here: https://goo.gl/RkcECS
Register for these events and be sure to mention Discount Code EXLPR to receive 15% off standard rates.
For More Information, Contact: ExL Events
Phone: +1 212-400-6240
Email: registration@exlevents.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hear-what-experts-from-fda-bms-roche-and-more-have-to-say-about-product-complaints-and-product-recall-challenges-300589523.html
SOURCE ExL Events