REDWOOD CITY, Calif., Jan. 09, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian, LLP has announced the promotions of three associates to the partnership, effective January 1, 2018.
“We are delighted to welcome these three, very talented lawyers as new partners,” said Robert V. Gunderson, Jr., Chairman of the firm. “We’ve achieved strong growth in each of our offices and these new partners will help us maintain the responsiveness and quality of service that our clients, which include a significant majority of the most prominent venture capital firms in the world as well as many of the fastest-growing global technology and life science companies, expect and deserve.”
The three new partners are:
Jared Grauer , Corporate and Securities , Silicon Valley. Jared represents a variety of technology companies in all phases of their life cycle. His practice focuses on strategic advisory, corporate governance, securities law compliance, venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions and other transactions. Jared also regularly advises many venture capital firms in their investments. Prior to joining Gunderson Dettmer, Jared co-founded Course Hero, Inc., the leading online learning platform for crowd-sourced study resources.
Mike Heath , Corporate and Securities , Los Angeles. Mike co-founded the firm’s Los Angeles office in 2012. He represents emerging growth companies, technology incubators and venture funds with a focus on venture financing, debt financing, mergers and acquisitions, token investments and corporate governance matters. He represents clients in a wide range of industries.
Colman Lynch , Corporate and Securities , New York. Colman represents technology companies in a variety of industries throughout their life cycle on matters including corporate governance, venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions, and other strategic transactions. Colman also regularly advises leading venture capital firms in their U.S. and international investments. He is also a Visiting Clinical Lecturer in Law at Yale Law School.
About Gunderson Dettmer
Gunderson Dettmer is the leading business law firm for venture capital and emerging growth companies globally. The firm brings unsurpassed commitment and experience to supporting entrepreneurs and investors in building game-changing companies and leading venture capital brands. With more than 220 attorneys in nine offices around the world, the firm is consistently recognized for leadership and excellence in its areas of practice by Chambers & Partners, Best Lawyers, Legal 500 and Pitchbook.
Valerie J. Newhouse
Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian, LLP
Phone: 650-463-5218
vnewhouse@gunder.com
Source: Gunderson Dettmer