CHICAGO, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Transdev, the leading global provider of multi-modal mobility solutions, is pleased to announce Jeff Kizilbash has been named president of the Consumer Services division of Transdev North America.
As president, Kizilbash will oversee SuperShuttle and ExecuCar contracts at nearly 70 airports, and some two dozen local taxi operations. His rich history in rapid development of products, services and experiences that entice and excite customers, as well as his track record of building customer loyalty and increasing revenue, will help the division attract and retain customers.
"With new challenges come new opportunities for our Consumer Services division and we are thrilled to have Jeff leading our team in this new era in customer-centric mobility," said Transdev North America CEO Yann Leriche. "His background in improving the customer experience, combined with his success in both turnaround situations and new businesses, makes him the perfect choice for this position. We look forward to our teams accomplishments under his leadership."
Kizilbash has spent 20 years in consumer services, focused on both customer growth and operational improvement. Most recently he led operations at Varsity Tutors, an education technology startup specializing in academic tutoring, where he increased the size of the tutor network and improved the overall tutoring experience to enhance client retention and repeat business. Previously, Kizilbash was a leader with Sears Home Services, the nation's largest provider of residential home services, where he served as the executive responsible for the home remodeling and maintenance businesses, powered by a network of both franchise owners and contractors.
Kizilbash holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from the University of Illinois, a Master's Certification from George Washington University, and is trained in Lean Management and Six Sigma.
About Transdev
Based near Chicago, Transdev is the largest private-sector operator of multiple modes of transit in North America, including bus, rail, streetcar, paratransit, shuttle, and sedan and taxi services. Globally, Transdev operates public transportation in 19 countries. Transdev is committed to being the trusted partner of cities, transit authorities and airports through quality execution and innovations in mobility. For more information, go to www.transdevna.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/jeff-kizilbash-named-president-of-consumer-services-for-transdev-north-america-300579832.html
SOURCE Transdev