DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Trend Micro Incorporated ( TYO: 4704 ; TSE: 4704 ), a global leader in cybersecurity solutions, was named a Leader in Gartner, Inc.’s 2018 Magic Quadrant for Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems*. Trend Micro improved its position in the Leaders quadrant compared to the previous year.
In under two years since the acquisition of TippingPoint, Trend Micro has further advanced its Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) solution. From Trend Micro’s perspective, the placement in this Gartner report demonstrates the company’s commitment to protect critical infrastructures from known and unknown vulnerabilities.
“We are proud of the strategic value customers are getting from our TippingPoint IPS and its elegant integration into our Deep Discovery threat detection technology,” said Don Closser, vice president and general manager for Trend Micro TippingPoint. “We continually assess the global changes in technology infrastructure, user behaviors and the evolving threat landscape. Overlaying these three lenses shows us where to refine our solutions to provide one of the most complete security portfolios in the industry.”
Trend Micro’s IPS offering gives organizations a proactive approach to network security by equipping them with comprehensive contextual awareness and in-depth network traffic analysis to prevent intrusions before they occur. By inspecting and blocking inbound, outbound and lateral network traffic in real time, it defends datacenters and distributed enterprise networks with automated remediation of vulnerable systems. The solution pulls from intelligence gathered from Trend Micro’s security research teams to stay ahead of ever-changing threats and offer the industry’s most advanced detection capabilities.
To download a complimentary copy of the full Gartner Magic Quadrant for Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems report, please visit here . For more information about Trend Micro TippingPoint solutions, go to www.trendmicro.com/tippingpoint .
*Gartner “Magic Quadrant for Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems,” by Craig Lawson, Claudio Neiva; January 10, 2018.
Gartner Disclaimer
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
About Trend Micro
Trend Micro Incorporated, a global leader in cybersecurity solutions, helps to make the world safe for exchanging digital information. Our innovative solutions for consumers, businesses, and governments provide layered security for data centers, cloud environments, networks, and endpoints. All our products work together to seamlessly share threat intelligence and provide a connected threat defense with centralized visibility and control, enabling better, faster protection. With more than 6,000 employees in over 50 countries and the world’s most advanced global threat intelligence, Trend Micro enables organizations to secure their journey to the cloud. For more information, visit www.trendmicro.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005167/en/
Trend Micro Incorporated
Kateri Daniels, 817-522-7911
media_relations@trendmicro.com
Source: Trend Micro Incorporated