On Tuesday, Elon Musk announced his plans to stay on as Tesla's CEO for the next decade. With that agreement, Musk also unveiled a new proposed compensation strategy, which Andrew Ross Sorkin in The New York Times calls possibly "the boldest pay plan in corporate history." 
He would only be paid if Tesla reaches a set of aggressive milestones that will eventually grow the company's valuation to more than $650 billion. Tesla is currently valued at around $59 billion. While the plan would allow for Musk to earn billions more, if he doesn't reach the milestones, he would get nothing. 
Musk is worth a reported $22 billion , but the official salary he currently receives from Tesla is far more modest: The CEO earns just around $37,000 per year. (Musk is also the CEO of SpaceX, which is privately held.)
show chapters Billionaire Elon Musk responds to unhappy Tesla customer      1:59 PM ET Mon, 18 Sept 2017 | 00:50 If Musk had things his way, he says, he'd choose not to take a salary at all. But because California law prohibits him from earning less than minimum wage, he still draws a token salary, according to the Times.
The CEO can choose not to spend the money, however.
"I don't cash it," he told the Times. "It just ends up accumulating in a Tesla bank account somewhere."
show chapters Wharton Professor Adam Grant: Why Elon Musk wants his employees to always speak up      8:29 AM ET Fri, 28 July 2017 | 00:49 Musk's not the only top executive declining pay . Taking only $1 in compensation has become something of a point of pride in and around Silicon Valley.
That's because a company's stock value speaks louder than a set salary. "The dollar salary really for them is meant to signify that they have large stakes in their company. The value they're going to receive — the compensation they'll earn — is coming solely from their stock," Aaron Boyd, director of governance for Equilar, a company that researches executive compensation, explains to Forbes .
In the past, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, Snap Inc.'s Evan Spiegel and Alphabet's Larry Page and Sergey Brin have all opted to take a single dollar in official compensation. 
Don't miss: 
Here's just how deeply 68% of Americans don't want to talk about money Nicholas Cage once blew $150 million on a private island and a dinosaur skull—here's everything he bought How 'Grey's Anatomy' star Ellen Pompeo went from barely paying rent to earning $20 million a year Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook ! 
show chapters Top SpaceX HR exec: Here’s what it takes to score a job at Elon Musk's company      4:43 PM ET Thu, 21 Dec 2017 | 01:06