AUSTIN, Texas, VUV Analytics Inc., the leader in vacuum ultraviolet (VUV) absorption spectroscopy, has announced the addition of Ray Himmel as senior vice president of sales.
Mr. Himmel has an extensive track record of leading sales teams, including 15 years at Waters Corporation in U.S. and international sales executive roles. A former U.S. Marine, he studied marketing at Northeastern University.
"Ray's breadth and depth of experience in selling instrumentation across diverse industry segments will be an asset to our company as we build upon our increasing footprint in fuels and chemicals and our early traction in foods, life science and other key markets," said Clark Jernigan, CEO of VUV Analytics. "We expect that his expertise in growing mainstream customer acceptance of disruptive technology will lead to the type of sales success for VUV that he drove with the Acquity UPLC product at Waters."
"We are excited about Ray's experience leading international teams and focusing them on serving the most impactful markets," said Sean Jameson, senior vice president of business development. "His work will be critical in sustaining our growth in Europe, the Middle East and Asia."
"I could not be more enthusiastic about joining VUV Analytics and driving their next level of sales growth," stated Ray Himmel, senior vice president of sales. "I look forward to leveraging their prior success and helping them to redefine the gas chromatography detector category by building widespread adoption of VUV."
About VUV Analytics
VUV Analytics manufactures universal vacuum ultraviolet (VUV) spectroscopic detectors that provide a new dimension of chemical analysis accuracy. VUV light creates unique spectral signatures in the gas phase that result in unambiguous compound identification and quantitative analysis across a wide spectrum of complex applications. Unlike legacy GC detectors, VUV detection delivers scalable data analysis automation with reduced analytical error and higher analytical throughput. For more information, visit www.vuvanalytics.com or contact VUV Analytics directly at (512) 333-0860.
Media Contact:
Paul Johnson
512-333-0860
paul.johnson@vuvanalytics.com
Related Links
VUV Analytics Website
 with multimedia: releases/ray-himmel-joins-vuv-analytics-as-senior-vice-president-of-sales-300589255.html
SOURCE VUV Analytics Inc.