SYCAMORE, Ill., Jan. 23, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC., a global, diversified, family-owned business that designs and manufactures American-made superior products and systems for professional tradesmen across various industries, announced today the hiring of Jeff Miller, a former Motorola Mobility corporate executive, as the Group President, Technology Group. The new division has been created to lead the company’s portfolio of advanced solutions for enhancing spaces - including wireless lighting controls, state-of-the-art charging systems and software.
Jeff Miller Group President of IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC.'s New Technology Group
“Jeff’s entrepreneurial spirit combined with a remarkable track record of strategic management and leadership of successful sales operations makes Jeff the perfect person to lead our new IDEAL Technology Group,” said IDEAL Chairman and CEO Jim James. “We’re confident in his ability to lead the charge to grow market share and drive demand for our collection of innovative technologies within the advanced lighting and charging/power delivery space. These innovations have been engineered to help facility managers, design engineers, building executives and architects around the world fulfill their visions – while also making their lives easier - for decades to come.”
The IDEAL Technology portfolio includes AUDACY ®, an advanced wireless lighting control system that has been successfully installed at large-scale institutions across the country, such as Wrigley Field and Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, can deliver up to 60-percent lighting energy savings per year while providing more flexibility. PowerPuck ™ is a system that aims to transform the way people charge their electronic devices in public spaces. Both will be priority innovation areas of focus as Miller takes on his new role at IDEAL.
Miller’s 17-year career with Motorola included roles such as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of North American Operations, Vice President of Sales, Vice President of Global E-Commerce and Global Strategic Account Management. Previously, Miller worked at AT&T and served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Somera Communications, a startup providing network equipment and asset management solutions to global telecom operators.
Miller will remain a board member of 1871, a Technology and Entrepreneurship Center in Chicago, as an advisor to startups. He holds an MBA from The Ohio State University and a Bachelor Degree in Business from Miami University (Ohio).
For more information about IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC. and Technology Group’s systems, please visit http://www.idealindustries.com .
About IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC.
IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC. is a global, diversified family business designing and manufacturing superior products and tools for professional tradesmen in the electrical, wire processing, data communications, aerospace, automotive and construction industries. The 102-year old company was founded in 1916 on the premise of forging ideal relationships with customers, employees and communities. The company has consistently grown and expanded under five generations of family ownership.
Contact: Anthony Filomena
SCC | PRISM
E: AnthonyF@sccadv.com
P: 312.464.1666
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/77f37db5-869f-4bec-a0f8-80f0d670f80c
Source: IDEAL INDUSTRIES, INC.