LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Korn Ferry (NYSE:KFY) today announced that Deepali Vyas has joined the firm’s financial services practice as a senior client partner. She will be based in the New York office.
Ms. Vyas brings to the firm more than 18 years of c-suite executive search and leadership advisory experience, working with client-facing and corporate leadership talent. She has led global searches for asset managers, hedge funds, private equity firms, investment and commercial banks, pension funds and other financial institutions, in addition to FinTech and technology organizations.
Her areas of expertise include artificial intelligence, data science, machine learning and quantitative strategies.
Ms. Vyas joins Korn Ferry from a large executive search firm where she was sector leader of the Americas Global Markets & Hedge Fund Practice. There, she focused on traditional and alternative asset management, capital markets, and FinTech/quantitative and systematic investment management.
Prior to that role, Ms. Vyas ran a boutique executive search firm that she founded, where she worked primarily in investment management and quantitative strategy recruiting and developed niche expertise in the electronic and algorithmic trading arenas.
“Deepali is known in our industry for the trusting partnerships she develops with clients, and for her deep expertise in a vast range of financial functions,” said Michael Franzino, President, Global Financial Services, Korn Ferry. “Her specialized knowledge and experience will be great assets to our clients and to our firm.”
Ms. Vyas earned a bachelor’s degree in financial mathematics from University of Colorado and completed coursework in London School of Economics and Political Science International Finance master’s degree program.
About Korn Ferry
Korn Ferry is a global organizational consulting firm. We help companies design their organization – the structure, the roles and responsibilities, as well as how they compensate, develop and motivate their people. As importantly, we help organizations select and hire the talent they need to execute their strategy. Our approximately 7,000 colleagues serve clients in more than 50 countries.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005401/en/
Korn Ferry
Liz Allison, 310-556-8583
Liz.Allison@kornferry.com
Source: Korn Ferry