HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif., Jan. 24, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nodechain, Inc. (OTC:VPTK), ("Company" or "Nodechain, Inc"), a fully-reporting, diversified cryptocurrency company, is pleased to announce that the Company has expanded and diversified its leadership team through the appointment of three veteran businessmen. Joining the existing Directors are Youssef Hanine, David Kim, and Phillip Nuciola III. “The appointment of these outstanding business minds should be of tremendous benefit to our growing leadership and accountability,” stated Andy Ibrahim, CEO of Nodechain, Inc. “Each of these gentlemen bring to Nodechain a wealth of experience and relationships that should prove useful to the efficient execution of our business plan.”
Mr. Hanine has worked for First Financial as a National Account Manager and Project Development Manager for the last five years. Mr. Kim worked at LoanMe Inc. as a Senior Sales Agent from 2016-17, has worked at CashCall as a Senior Sales Agent and worked at OneStop Internal Systems as a Manager.
Mr. Nuciola is the founder and Managing Member of Plum Mountain Imaging Corporation and concurrently serves as Director of Product Development with CrestRock Advisors. Before becoming the Director of Product Development for CrestRock Advisors, Mr. Nuciola served as Chairman of the Board with Core Research Management, a publicly traded Energy company. During Mr. Nuciola’s tenure the company grew from $1.5 million in assets and $4 million in debt to $14 million in assets and $2 million of debt. Mr. Nuciola maintained senior positions at Cornerstone Partners, Kingsman Capital, American Freedom Securities, Sanders, Morris, & Harris and Scottsdale Capital Advisors.
Mr. Nuciola will serve as a Board Director while Hanine and Kim will serve as Independent Directors.
About Nodechain. Inc:
Nodechain, Inc. is a a publicly traded company on the Over-the-Counter (OTC) US market, trading under the ticker symbol VPTK. Based out of Huntington Beach, California, we are engaged in the digital cryptocurrency mining and transaction validation operations.
Forward Looking Statements
This release may contain forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements containing the words "believes", "anticipates", "expects", "intends", "plans", "seeks", "estimates", "may", "will", "could", "stands to" and "continues", as well as similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which might cause the actual results, financial condition, performance or achievements of Nodechain, Inc., or industry results, to be materially different from any historic or future results, financial conditions, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, the reader is advised not to place any undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of publication of this document. Nodechain, Inc. expressly disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements in this document to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based, unless required by law or regulation.
For more information, visit the company's website: https://nodecha.in/
Nodechain, Inc. Contact:
Investor Relations :
teresa@i-businessmanagementllc.com
1-888-827-3451
Source:Nodechain, Inc.