WOODBRIDGE, N.J., Jan. 3, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, P.A. announced today that Retired New Jersey Superior Court Judge Frank M. Ciuffani has been appointed as the firm's General Counsel. Judge Ciuffani takes the reins from former shareholder Ellen Torregrossa-O'Connor, following her recent appointment as a New Jersey Superior Court judge in Monmouth County.
As General Counsel at Wilentz, Judge Ciuffani serves as the firm's key advisor concerning the law governing lawyers, governance issues, risk management, and policy implementation. In addition to his duties as General Counsel, Judge Ciuffani focuses his practice on mediating and arbitrating complex commercial, business, employment, probate, and family disputes. He has also recently developed a special curriculum for lawyers aimed at trial preparedness.
"We are fortunate and proud to have Frank Ciuffani serving as our General Counsel," commented Brian J. Molloy, President and Managing Director of Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, P.A. "His long-standing experience both on the bench and at Wilentz is of great benefit to the firm in this key advisory position."
In April 2017, Judge Ciuffani rejoined Wilentz to lead the firm's Alternative Dispute Resolution practice after serving 14 years on the bench, including as immediate former Presiding Judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, General Equity Division, as Probate Judge of Middlesex County, and as New Jersey Superior Court Judge, Civil and Family Divisions of Middlesex County. Prior to his government service, Judge Ciuffani practiced at Wilentz for 29 years in the firm's business litigation group.
In addition to Judge Ciuffani, several other Wilentz attorneys and alumni have judicial experience. Former shareholder Barry T. Albin serves as an Associate Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court since 2002. Retired New Jersey Supreme Court Senior Associate Justice Alan B. Handler joined Wilentz as Of Counsel in 1999 following 22 years on the bench. Former shareholder Douglas T. Hague served as a New Jersey Superior Court judge from 1992 until 2003, and former shareholder Norman J. Peer served as a Superior Court judge from 1997 until 2006. Wilentz founder David T. Wilentz served as the Attorney General of New Jersey from 1934 to 1944. His son Robert N. Wilentz served as Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court from 1979 to 1996 and son Warren W. Wilentz served as a Middlesex County prosecutor.
About Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, P.A.
Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, P.A. is one of the largest law firms in New Jersey, offering legal services to corporate, individual and governmental clients in a wide variety of practice areas. Wilentz lawyers have practiced at the forefront of landmark cases, regulatory matters and high profile projects and transactions since the firm was established by David T. Wilentz, who served as the New Jersey Attorney General from 1934 to 1944. Wilentz is based in Woodbridge and has offices in Eatontown, New York City and Philadelphia. For more information about Wilentz, visit www.wilentz.com .
Contact: Lynn Tellefsen, 732.855.6102 | ltellefsen@wilentz.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wilentz-goldman--spitzer-pa-names-retired-new-jersey-superior-court-judge-frank-m-ciuffani-as-general-counsel-300577077.html
SOURCE Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, P.A.