RENO, Nev., Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- AMERCO (Nasdaq: UHAL), the parent company of U-Haul International, Inc., Oxford Life Insurance Company, Repwest Insurance Company and Amerco Real Estate Company, plans to reports its third quarter fiscal 2018 financial results after the close of market trading on Wednesday, February 7, 2018. The Company is scheduled to conduct its third quarter investor conference call and webcast at 8 a.m. Arizona Time (10 a.m. ET) on Thursday, February 8, 2018.
Listen via the Internet:
https://www.webcaster4.com/Webcast/Page/415/24251
If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived at www.amerco.com .
About AMERCO
AMERCO is the parent company of U-Haul International, Inc., Oxford Life Insurance Company, Repwest Insurance Company and Amerco Real Estate Company. U-Haul is in the shared use business and was founded on the fundamental philosophy that the division of use and specialization of ownership is good for both U-Haul customers and the environment.
About U-Haul
Founded in 1945, U-Haul is the industry leader in do-it-yourself moving and self-storage with more than 21,000 locations across the U.S. and Canada. U-Haul customers' patronage has enabled the Company to maintain the largest rental fleet of trucks, trailers and towing devices in the do-it-yourself moving industry. U-Haul is the consumer's number one choice as the largest installer of permanent trailer hitches in the automotive aftermarket industry. The Company supplies alternative-fuel for vehicles and backyard barbecues as one of the nation's largest retailers of propane.
U-Haul was founded by a Navy veteran and his wife who both grew up during the Great Depression. Tires and gas were still rationed or in short supply during the late 1940s when U-Haul began serving U.S. customers. Today, that background is central to the U-Haul Sustainability Program: Serving the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Our commitment to reduce, reuse and recycle includes fuel-efficient moving vans, neighborhood proximity, moving box reuse, moving pads made from discarded material and packing peanuts that are 100% biodegradable. Learn more about these facts and others at uhaul.com/sustainability .
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amerco-schedules-third-quarter-fiscal-year-2018-financial-results-release-and-investor-webcast-300587830.html
SOURCE AMERCO