0 COMMENTS Good morning. The Consumer Electronics Show was not lit Wednesday, when a power failure saw the main convention center plunge into darkness for almost two hours. And you betcha, social media managers were *on it,* with tech brands from Intel to HyperX sharing their dark humor. And the Oreo “dunk in the dark” moment continues to be squeezed for every last drop , five years on.
The Fall of Logan Paul Earlier this week, YouTube said it was exploring “further consequences” for vlogger Logan Paul, who posted a video Dec. 31 that appeared to show the body of a suicide victim. YouTube said Wednesday that it removed Mr. Paul from its Google Preferred lineup , which offers brands the ability to serve their ads only on the top 5% of creators’ videos on the platform. (Mr. Paul will still be able to make money from his YouTube videos via its wider ad program.) In addition, YouTube said Mr. Paul won’t appear in the fourth season of its YouTube Red program “Foursome,” and his other YouTube Red originals have been put “on hold.” YouTube took similar action against PewDiePie in February last year in response to a series of videos he posted that featured anti-Semitic jokes. That YouTube has been down this road before raises the question of why it took so long for the company to respond this time, particularly among Google Preferred advertisers, who might have assumed the program offered an assurance of brand safety.
Desperate Times Call for Desperate Measures When it comes to buying inventory from digital publishers, many ad buyers have developed a comScore muscle memory for sizing up their audiences. But publishers have long complained comScore undercounts their visitor numbers. Now, as more media companies publish videos directly to social media platforms, they are searching for a new measurement benchmark. As CMO Today’s Ben Mullin reports, one alternative is Nielsen’s Digital Content Ratings , which incorporates audiences for video and text content across apps, websites and social media platforms. You can see why publishers might be keen: Nielsen numbers are dramatically higher than those provided by comScore’s Media Metrix Multi-Platform product. BuzzFeed’s Nielsen number, for example, is generally around twice as high as its comScore figure. It’s a moot point among publishers, but sophisticated advertisers should be taking into account more considerations than just audience size when making their ad-buying decisions—content and engagement should be equally important (if not more-important) factors to consider.
New Diet Coke Diet Coke may have a legion of loyalists, but its sales are in a slump as health-conscious drinkers shift to water and other sparkling alternatives. Last quarter, Coca-Cola said Diet Coke’s volume sales in North America plunged by “mid-single digits.” Time for a revamp . In fact, it’s been two years in the making, as Ad Age reports. A slimmer can is being introduced, alongside four new flavors (although the stubby can we’ve known for years remains in the lineup and the original flavor isn’t being reformulated). Diet Coke also is moving on from its “glossy…superficial, skewing female” marketing and shifting to a more “authentic,” “gender neutral and diverse” approach, according to Rafael Acevedo, Coca-Cola North America group director for Diet Coke. Coca-Cola will be hoping to repeat the success of its Coke Zero relaunch, which was replaced with Coke Zero Sugar in the U.S. last year. It’s early days and was backed with lots of marketing and promotional pricing, but Coca-Cola said its third-quarter U.S. case volume for Coke Zero Sugar was at double the growth rate of the prior quarter.
Hidden Figures An ad tech transparency double-header for you. First up, AdExchanger lifted the lid on the “hidden fees” some demand-side platforms, or DSPs, charge to make money on top of taking a percentage of marketers’ media spend. The report doesn’t suggest all DSPs are using any or all of these methods, but the piece is well worth a read for marketers to get a sense of the questions they need to ask their vendors and to assess whether their contract terms need refining. Over on the sell side of the market, Digiday takes a look at why publishers don’t name and shame the suppliers responsible for selling fraudulent inventory purporting to be from their websites, a practice known as domain spoofing. Factors include fear of messy lawsuits, confidentiality clauses in contracts and the complicated nature of the ad tech ecosystem, making it difficult to pin the blame on specific vendors.
Best of the rest Why the print advertising circular lives on for retailers, and why it’s becoming a popular marketing tool for online startups, too. [ WSJ ]
Facebook is testing a new feed dedicated to local news and events called “Today In.” [ Recode ]
A look at the new breed of retail startup operations that use e-commerce platforms such as Shopify and Aliexpress and ads on Facebook and Instagram to shift boatloads of goods without holding any inventory or having access to capital. [ The Atlantic ]
The coveted 1 million follower mark opens up Instagram stars to a coveted world of lucrative marketing deals. [ WSJ ]
JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth estimates Amazon’s ad revenue will surpass $4.5 billion in 2018. [ Business Insider ]
21st Century Fox is nearing a deal to buy about 10 television stations from Sinclair Broadcast Group. (Reminder: 21st Century Fox and The Wall Street Journal parent News Corp share common ownership.) [ FT ]
Mobile ad network InMobi acquired mobile video ad tech firm AerServ for $90 million. [ AdExchanger ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com