PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- TIBCO Software Inc. , a global leader in integration, API management, and analytics, today announced the appointment of Matt Quinn as chief operating officer (COO). Quinn previously served as executive vice president (EVP), products & technology, and chief technology officer (CTO). In addition, Nelson Petracek has been promoted to fill the role of global CTO. Both Quinn and Petracek provide TIBCO and its customers unmatched industry and technological expertise.
"We're pleased to announce the promotions of Matt Quinn and Nelson Petracek," said Murray Rode, chief executive officer, TIBCO. "As we ramp up the TIBCO Connected Intelligence Cloud, Matt's role expands as COO, adding to his current responsibilities in leading all technology and product development to also include the operational aspects of running and growing our cloud business. Meanwhile, we continue to see opportunities for our customers in rapid developments around new technology, from cloud and microservices to blockchain and artificial intelligence. Nelson brings the appropriate deep, technical knowledge and broad customer relationships to bear as our new global CTO."
Starting as a developer at TIBCO in 1997, Quinn served in a variety of technical roles, becoming CTO in 2010, and then EVP in 2014, responsible for all product engineering and support. Throughout his 20-plus years at TIBCO, Quinn has led large-scale transformations in engineering's organizational structure and product strategy.
"Our customer-first mindset is one of the many reasons I'm proud to be part of the TIBCO team," said Quinn. "When customers choose TIBCO, I want to ensure that they receive a high-performing service that propels the growth of their businesses. I am excited to continue expanding and innovating to meet every customer need."
Petracek has been with TIBCO for 11 years. Most recently, he led the Strategic Enablement Group, managing a team focused on various areas of innovation, including cloud, low-code applications, blockchain, and natural language processing. Prior to his tenure at TIBCO, Petracek was a senior director for Informatica Corporation's Emerging Technologies Group, where he was responsible for growing the company's global technology footprint.
"I'm honored to be a part of such a forward-thinking company," said Petracek. "Working at the forefront of technology innovation and serving the dual needs of our corporate strategy and customer advocacy, I'm excited to help craft TIBCO's technology strategy as we continue to build valuable tools for businesses."
Follow us @TIBCO on Twitter, and on our Facebook and LinkedIn pages to hear the latest news and updates from our team.
About TIBCO
TIBCO fuels digital business by enabling better decisions and faster, smarter actions through the TIBCO Connected Intelligence Cloud. From APIs and systems to devices and people, we interconnect everything, capture data in real time wherever it is, and augment the intelligence of your business through analytical insights. Thousands of customers around the globe rely on us to build compelling experiences, energize operations, and propel innovation. Learn how TIBCO makes digital smarter at www.tibco.com .
TIBCO and the TIBCO logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TIBCO Software Inc. and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other product and company names and marks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners and are mentioned for identification.
Media Contact:
Lindsey Ashjian Torres
TIBCO Software Inc.
(650) 846-8862
publicrelations@tibco.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tibco-announces-matt-quinn-as-chief-operating-officer-300589921.html
SOURCE TIBCO Software Inc.