OAKVILLE, ON, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ - Romana Food Brands Corp. (OTC: RFBC) announced today it will be changing its name to Romana Food Blockchain Corp. further to the announcement on the development of the next generation blockchain food traceability and control application.
According to the company, the name change is representative of the change to its core corporate focus on the development of the next generation blockchain food traceability and control application. The company intends on filing the name change with FINRA in the coming days.
"The popularity of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency, such as Ethereum, is not surprising due to the great underlying blockchain technology which enables the coins." said Mr. Morrie Fogelbaum, Chairman of Romana Food Brands Corp. "Using the same blockchain protocols, and designing a new approach to traceability, Romana will be able to capture a significant portion of the growing $16 billion market" further added Mr. Fogelbaum.
About Romana Food Bands Corp.
Romana Food Brands Corp is an emerging leader in the authentic Italian Food sector. The company is in the process of acquiring food processing plants specializing in Italian products. It is currently in the final stages of acquiring plants in North America and in Italy.
Safe Harbor Act: Forward-Looking Statements are included within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, products and services, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations, including words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will," and similar expressions are forward-looking statements and involve risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, or achievements. We are under no obligation to (and expressly disclaim any such obligation to) update or alter forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
For more information visit Romana's website at: http://romanafoodbrands.com
SOURCE Romana Food Brands Corp