PEMBROKE, Bermuda--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Validus Holdings, Ltd. (“Validus” or the “Company”) (NYSE:VR) announced today that, in light of its definitive agreement to be acquired by leading global insurer American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG), the company is canceling its fourth quarter and year ended 2017 conference call and webcast that was previously scheduled for Friday, February 2, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.
Validus will issue its fourth quarter 2017 results earnings release and related SEC filings as previously scheduled on Thursday, February 1, 2018, after market close. Supplemental materials related to its fourth quarter earnings will be available via the Investor Relations section of the Validus website at www.validusholdings.com .
About Validus Holdings, Ltd.
Validus Holdings, Ltd. is a leading global provider of reinsurance, insurance, and asset management services, delivering its premier solutions through four diversified yet complementary operating companies: Validus Reinsurance, Ltd., a global reinsurance group focused primarily on treaty reinsurance; Talbot Underwriting Ltd., a specialty (re)insurance group operating within the Lloyd’s market through Syndicate 1183; Western World Insurance Group, Inc., a U.S. specialty lines organization; and AlphaCat Managers, Ltd., a Bermuda-based investment advisor managing capital for third parties and Validus through insurance-linked securities and other property catastrophe and specialty reinsurance investments.
Research and analytics are at the core of Validus’ operations and provide its team of expert practitioners with the knowledge and insight required to effectively model and interpret risk – an approach that consistently benefits clients and ensures their needs are met. Validus maintains a worldwide presence with more than 1,000 employees in 19 offices across all major regions and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol VR.
More information about the Validus group of companies can be found at validusholdings.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180129005744/en/
Investors:
Validus Holdings, Ltd.
Investor.Relations@ValidusHoldings.com
+1-441-278-9000
or
Media:
Brunswick Group
Mustafa Riffat / Charlotte Connerton
+1-212-333-3810
Source: Validus Holdings, Ltd.