OMAHA, Neb., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Callahan Financial Planning Company announced in a public filing that it had completed a transition to federal regulatory registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This change was prompted by growth in the number of clients served, and a corresponding statutory requirement mandating that firms reaching certain asset levels shift from state to federal registration 2 .
Reuben Brauer, a senior financial planner with the company, said, "This has been a very exciting time for us. We've focused on enhancing our services to further integrate financial-and-life planning on the topics that are relevant and desired by our clients, and we feel our goals-based approach to savings, retirement, income tax, and investments has really resonated with people."
The firm opened in 2010 to fill a perceived market gap, where an insufficient number of unbiased financial planners were available in the Omaha-area, said William Callahan, founder of the firm. The form of advice provided by Callahan Financial Planning is commonly described by financial planners as "fee-only", where the planner and the firm are only paid directly by clients, and may not receive compensation from any other sources. This fee structure is commonly sought by investors looking for advice that is free of conflicts of interest.
Callahan Financial Planning is a member of the National Association of (fee-only) Personal Financial Advisors, or NAPFA, and has three Certified Financial Planner™ practitioners and two practicing members of the Financial Therapy Association on its staff.
Appointment of Chief Compliance Officer
Simultaneously, Callahan Financial Planning announced the appointment of Allison Cerven as the company's Chief Compliance Officer. Mrs. Cerven is a Certified Financial Planner™ professional, and has been with the firm since 2013.
Mrs. Cerven, on her new role, stated, "This role is vital in any organization, and I'm proud of how best practices of safety, security, and compliance have always been at the center of our decision-making. I'm honored to serve the firm in this capacity, and further strengthen policies and procedures that service our clients, company, staff and regulators well."
For more information about Callahan Financial Planning and the client process, visit: https://callahanplanning.com
Disclosures and References
1 The regulatory filing can be viewed here , or on the SEC website .
2 Registration with the SEC or a state securities authority does not imply any specific level of skill or training. All investment advisors serving the public in the United States must be registered with a state or federal authority, and a firm may not generally choose their regulator, as such jurisdiction is generally based on a firm's level of regulatory assets under management.
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/callahan-financial-planning-celebrates-growth-announces-transition-to-federal-regulator-and-appointment-of-chief-compliance-officer-300578400.html
SOURCE Callahan Financial Planning Company