MILWAUKEE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Rexnord Corporation (NYSE:RXN) its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend to holders of the 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of $14.375 per share (which dividend corresponds to $0.71875 per depositary share), payable on February 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of February 1, 2018.
About Rexnord
Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rexnord is comprised of two strategic platforms, Process & Motion Control and Water Management, with approximately 8,000 employees worldwide. The Process & Motion Control platform designs, manufactures, markets and services specified, highly-engineered mechanical components used within complex systems. The Water Management platform designs, procures, manufactures and markets products that provide and enhance water quality, safety, flow control and conservation. Additional information about the Company can be found at www.rexnordcorp.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Information in this release may involve outlook, expectations, beliefs, plans, intentions, strategies or other statements regarding the future, which are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements included in this release are based upon information available to Rexnord Corporation as of the date of the release, and Rexnord Corporation assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. The statements in this release are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Numerous factors could cause or contribute to such differences. Please refer to “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 as well as the Company’s annual, quarterly and current reports filed on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K from time to time with the SEC for a further discussion of the factors and risks associated with the business.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180102005889/en/
Rexnord Corporation
Investor Contact:
Rob McCarthy
Vice President, Investor Relations
414-223-1615
or
Media Contact:
Angela Hersil
Director, Corporate Communications
855-480-5050
Corporate.Communications@Rexnord.com
Source: Rexnord Corporation