BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- KBT Partners, strategic advisor and consultancy to leading-edge healthcare companies and their investors, is pleased to announce the addition of two new senior members of the firm. Bob Fleming and Frank Ingari are joining the KBT team, significantly increasing the breadth and depth of the firm’s service offerings.
“Our mission has always been to accelerate sustainable growth for healthcare innovators. We’ve seen a sharp increase in demand for a broad set of functional skills,” said Dr. Hans Boerma, KBT co-founder. “Bob and Frank bring significant financial and technical skills to KBT, as well as long track records moving companies along the path from conception to exit.”
“Hans and I have been part of healthcare IT for our entire careers,” added Michael Kaufman, KBT co-founder. “Today we see an unprecedented combination of investment funding, commitment to innovation across the ecosystem, and a new generation of healthcare entrepreneurs.”
Bob Fleming has been a successful venture investor and investment banker for over 30 years. He founded Prism Venture Partners in 1995, and is a Managing Director with Bowen Advisors, focusing on financing and acquisition strategies for healthcare IT companies. Well versed in all aspects of corporate management and finance, Bob adds financing and M&A expertise to KBT.
Frank Ingari is an experienced CEO, serial entrepreneur, and technology executive. CEO or advisor for 5 IPOs, he was a pioneer in value-based care as the CEO of Essence Healthcare, the first 5-Star Medicare Advantage plan that did not own a provider practice. Ingari will lead the technology consulting services at the firm.
With the addition of these two new senior executives, the firm now offers a comprehensive group of services to clients and their investors:
Strategic planning and business plan creation Defining and executing business development strategies, including business partnerships and buy-side programs Due diligence and portfolio review for investors Corporate finance strategies, including fundraising assistance and M&A Management evaluation and coaching Technology assessment and acceleration Post-acquisition integration and value maximization of strategic alliances
KBT is committed to help accelerate the transformation of health care, driven by new payment models, the rapidly emerging role of the consumer/patient in their care, and the urgent strategic need to digitize. The company’s approach is hands on, based on the deep operating and advisory backgrounds of the team. With a focus on new initiatives and their execution to value, KBT’s single most important goal is for its clients to become market leaders.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180110005609/en/
KBT
Frank Ingari, 781-214-6705
fingari@kbtpartners.com
info@kbtpartners.com
www.kbtpartners.com
Source: KBT Partners