PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Standard Insurance Company (The Standard) announced today that Kerry Goff has been promoted to assistant vice president of Information Technology Enterprise Services.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005036/en/
Kerry Goff, assistant vice president of Information Technology Enterprise Services at The Standard. (Photo: Business Wire)
Goff joined The Standard in 2014 as senior director of Infrastructure Architecture and Engineering where he had responsibility for the technical direction and sustainability of enterprise technology platforms. In his new role, Goff will have responsibility for Infrastructure Architecture and Engineering, the Service Management Office, Infrastructure Operations and Enterprise Content Management Services.
Prior to joining The Standard, Goff held various IT roles at Nike, HMS and Cambia Health Solutions.
“Kerry has a proven track record of running complex infrastructure organizations, and during the past three years at The Standard, he has helped modernize our technologies and positioned us to support our automation vision in IT,” said David O’Brien, senior vice president of Information Technology at The Standard.
Goff earned a Bachelor of Science in management information systems from Park University.
About The Standard
The Standard is a leading provider of financial products and services, including group and individual disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, group dental and vision insurance, absence management services, retirement plans products and services and individual annuities. about The Standard, visit www.standard.com .
The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York, Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Mortgage Investors, Inc., StanCorp Investment Advisers, Inc., StanCorp Real Estate, LLC, and StanCorp Equities, Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180117005036/en/
The Standard
Bob Speltz, Senior Director, Public Affairs
971-321-3162
bob.speltz@standard.com
Source: The Standard