Ask around the Glassdoor office, and employees will agree — this place spoils you for life. Why? Besides the amazing coworkers, inspiring mission and great company culture, we get free catered lunch every day in our Mill Valley, CA headquarters. And once you've gotten free lunch on a daily basis, it's hard to imagine working anywhere that doesn't offer this perk. It may sound trivial, but it really does make a difference. The amount of time you save making food and packing it each night or, on the other hand, the money you save by not going out to eat, really adds up over time.
More from Glassdoor:
7 podcasts that can help you find a job in 2018
12 companies that offer free lunch
How to get a job at SpaceX
Looking for a company that'll foot the bill for your meals? Apply to one of these 12 companies offering free lunch today!
1. Asana Company Rating: 4.9
Where Hiring: San Francisco, CA
Details: At Asana , a company that makes productivity software, food isn't just a perk — it's an art. "Our culinary team provides breakfast, lunch, snacks, and dinner daily. Meals are all organic, sustainably farmed and fished, and local when possible," Asana says . "Our skilled chefs and nutrition team thoughtfully plan every menu around meals that keep the Asana team feeling energized, nourished and working at their highest potential." And the employees rave about it. "Our culinary program deserves a michelin star… Better than a restaurant or what I could make at home. I am seriously so grateful for this," says a current Content Writer .
Available jobs at Asana
2. CoverMyMeds Company Rating: 4.8
Where Hiring: Columbus, OH; Highland Hills, OH
Details: CoverMyMeds , a healthcare tech company based out of Columbus, proves that free lunch isn't just a Silicon Valley perk. The company has an in-house chef, which is "dedicated to making healthy lunches every day," says a current Software Engineer . "There is also bottomless coffee, beer, soda, [kombucha], water and snacks available all the time."
Available jobs at CoverMyMeds
show chapters Easy ways to make progress with your money on your lunch break 10:03 AM ET Thu, 12 Jan 2017 | 01:07 3. Robinhood Company Rating: 5.0
Where Hiring: Palo Alto, CA; Orlando, FL
Details: Founded in 2013, Robinhood is a stock trading app that aims to democratize access to financial markets. And as savvy financiers, they know that providing free lunch for their employees is a great investment. "Free daily catered lunch and dinner, plus unlimited snacks and drinks," says a current employee . "Every Tuesday night, we get catering from a favorite local Chinese restaurant. Every Thursday night, we have noodle night, which could either be pho (really good – like no joke!), ramen, etc."
Available jobs at Robinhood
4. SendGrid Company Rating: 4.8
Where Hiring: Denver, CO; Redwood City, CA
Details: One of the four keys to communication platform company SendGrid 's culture is "hungry" — but that refers to their ambition, not their empty stomachs! SendGrid provides free, catered lunch every day from a variety of local restaurants. "The company perks are amazing," says a current employee . "Free lunch daily, fully stocked kitchen with snack and food so plentiful you could make a meal morning lunch and dinner."
Available jobs at SendGrid
5. Yahoo Company Rating: 3.8
Where Hiring: Sunnyvale, CA; Lockport, NY; Omaha, NE
Details: Work at internet giant Yahoo , and you may never have to pay for a meal again in your life (on weekdays, at least) — the company provides free breakfast, lunch and dinner daily. "Most are organic and healthy," says a current Engineer . "Frequently scouts for new offerings and changes so never stale."
Available jobs at Yahoo
6. SAP Company Rating: 4.5
Where Hiring: Newtown Square, PA; Alpharetta, GA; Bellevue, WA; Plano, TX and many more
Details: Given the fact that SAP is based out of Europe, perhaps it's no surprise that they offer amazing benefits — one of which is free lunch. According to employees , lunch is either available through catering, an in-house cafeteria or a per diem stipend depending on the office.
Available jobs at SAP
show chapters I ditched my brown-bag lunches for a $120 meal plan, and it's worth it 9:30 AM ET Fri, 7 April 2017 | 01:02 7. Glassdoor Company Rating: 4.0
Where Hiring: Mill Valley, CA; San Francisco, CA; Chicago, IL; Dublin, Ireland
Details: As a Glassdoor employee myself, I can testify firsthand to the quality of the catered lunches we receive on a daily basis at the Mill Valley headquarters. We rotate between two caterers each week with plenty of options for the health-conscious, vegetarians, omnivores and more. On the menu this week? Seafood paella, smothered pork chops, pumpkin coconut curry and Asian chopped salad, to name just a few.
Available jobs at Glassdoor
8. Sprout Social Company Rating: 4.9
Where Hiring: Chicago, IL; Atlanta, GA
Details: