OKLAHOMA CITY, Oklahoma Insurance Commissioner John D. Doak has been named Chair of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Antifraud (D) Task Force. Doak was also named to the International Insurance Relations (G) Committee, Executive (EX) Committee and Property and Casualty Insurance (C) Committee.
"These appointments allow me to tackle critical issues affecting the insurance industry and consumers," said Doak. "Keeping consumers safe from insurance fraud has been a top priority of mine from day one, so I appreciate the opportunity to find innovative ways to accomplish that goal. Collaboration is the key to success, and I look forward to working with my fellow commissioners across the country over the next year."
The NAIC is the U.S. standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and governed by insurance regulators from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. Through the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight.
Doak will serve as Chair of the NAIC Midwest Zone in 2018. The zone groups are part of the NAIC Executive Committee. They help carry out the authority and responsibilities of the NAIC's goals. The Midwest Zone represents 13 states.
Doak has also been named the NAIC's representative to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). As part of duties, Doak will attend meetings with international insurance regulators to discuss emerging insurance issues around the world.
About the Oklahoma Insurance Department
The Oklahoma Insurance Department, an agency of the State of Oklahoma, is responsible for the education and protection of the insurance-buying public and for oversight of the insurance industry in the state.
For more information, contact:
Kelly Dexter
405-522-0683
Kelly.Dexter@oid.ok.gov
View original content with multimedia: releases/commissioner-doak-named-chair-of-naic-antifraud-task-force-300586934.html
SOURCE Oklahoma Insurance Department