NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Boies Schiller Flexner LLP today announced that Quyen Ta is joining the firm to help lead its growing practice in Northern California. Recognized for her winning litigation track record and significant contributions to the legal community, Ta will continue to focus her practice on consumer class action defense, intellectual property, and other high-stakes litigation.
Ta is an experienced litigator and trial lawyer, having tried numerous cases and handled a significant number of civil matters in state and federal courts. She has represented some of the world’s leading companies in various industries with their most challenging legal matters, including financial services, solar energy, semiconductor, pharmaceutical, healthcare, and self-storage. Her representative clients include Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, NRG Energy, Molina Healthcare, Public Storage, CubeSmart, and JM Eagle.
Ta has been recognized extensively for her work, including being named as a “Lawyer on the Fast Track” and a “Women Leader in Tech Law” by The Recorder, and one of the nation's “Best Lawyers Under 40” by the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association. Ta is recognized as a leader in the Northern District of California, when she was selected by the federal judges to serve a three-year term as a Lawyer Representative and served as a co-chair of that committee in 2016.
Boies Schiller Flexner Chairman David Boies said, “Quyen’s ability, accomplishments, and character make her the perfect person to be a leader of our growing Northern California practice. Her experience and success in class action and other high-stakes litigation will benefit our clients in California and globally. I am delighted to welcome Quyen as my partner.”
Jonathan Schiller, managing partner of Boies Schiller Flexner, said, “Quyen’s clients have entrusted her to manage some of their most pressing business challenges and the results she has achieved on their behalf speak to her skill as a litigator. We are pleased that the firm’s clients will be able to benefit from her class action experience and expertise.”
Ta, 40, has served as lead counsel in a number of high-stakes class action matters in state and federal courts throughout the country and across industries. She was also a lead partner in defending TSMC at the ITC, and was a member of TSMC’s trial team in a lawsuit against SMIC, which was the largest trade secret misuse case tried up to that point. She joins Boies Schiller Flexner from litigation boutique Keker, Van Nest & Peters, where she worked for 11 years. Previously, she served as a law clerk for Hon. Lawrence K. Karlton at the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California. Prior to that, she served as a staff attorney/legal fellow at the National Partnership for Women & Families, focusing on policy issues impacting working women and their families.
“I am thrilled to join the exceptional team of trial lawyers at Boies Schiller Flexner. I grew up in the Silicon Valley, as the child of Vietnamese refugees, raised by two visionaries who established amazing careers in tech despite not having command of the English language when they arrived. This is like coming full circle for me. As a Bay Area native, I grew up in a culture of opportunity, immense possibility, and innovation. Many of the country’s leading companies have already entrusted Boies Schiller Flexner to help successfully address their most business-critical issues, from intellectual property to high stakes commercial disputes. I am extremely honored at having been given the opportunity by Boies Schiller Flexner in further leading and establishing its reach in Silicon Valley,” Ta said.
Ta received her B.A. summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from the University of California, Los Angeles, and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law (Berkeley Law).
About Boies Schiller Flexner
Boies Schiller Flexner LLP ( www.bsfllp.com ) is a firm of internationally recognized trial lawyers, crisis managers, and strategic advisors known for creative, aggressive, and efficient pursuit of success for its clients. It has established a record of winning complex, groundbreaking, and cross-border matters in diverse circumstances and industries for many of the world's most sophisticated companies.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180118005346/en/
Boies Schiller Flexner LLP
Edward Evans, 212-446-2354
Director of Communications
eevans@bsfllp.com
Source: Boies Schiller Flexner LLP