Acquisition adds Proprietary CBD Hemp-Based Health Products to Consumer Product Offerings
SALT LAKE CITY, UT , EnviroTechnologies International, Inc., a publicly traded company (OTC Pink, Symbol: ETII) that develops and markets green, natural and organic products for diverse industries, announced today that it acquired CBD Health Co. ( www.cbdhealthco.com ), a company that markets and sells high quality and proprietary hemp-based, natural CBD health products, as a wholly owned subsidiary.
The revenues from hemp-based CBD products in the US currently exceeds $200 M and Forbes magazine predicts that sales in the CDB space will increase to over $2.1 B, a 700% increase, by the year 2020.
“Our company has been successful in developing, testing and marketing safe, green and non-toxic product and equipment solutions for several industries. Our principals have years of experience in developing and marketing consumer cleaning products. Acquiring CBD Health Co. is a natural evolutionary step in our company‘s development as CBD Health Co. is a leader in the highly profitable and ever-growing CBD health supplement market,” said Randall Waters, ETI’s Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
“Our health products are manufactured with natural US grown CBD hemp, which are an effective alternative to prescription drugs. Our vision has always been to create a world-class line of CBD products that will help usher in a new era of natural remedies, understanding that most patients would prefer to take a natural path towards healing,” said Jo De Leon, CBD Health Co.’s CEO. “Joining with ETI’s team will help CBD Health Co expand its marketing reach as well as full product development.”
“This merger creates great synergy. We appreciate Mr. De Leon’s pioneering work in this industry and are grateful that he will remain as CBD Health Co.’s CEO to drive its great vision,” said Waters.
About EnviroTechnologies International, Inc.
EnviroTechnologies International is a publicly listed company that develops and markets proprietary, synergistic products for the oil and gas and agriculture industries as well as wellness products. The company’s products are safe, natural, and non-toxic and “green” products for industries that often show little concern for the environment but are now feeling the social and governmental need to go "green." The company’s completely green and natural products are proprietary, unique and highly effective innovations to its target markets.
For more information visit our website at www.enviroti.com .
About CBD Health Co.
CBD Health Co. is an emerging innovative leader in the hemp-based industry. The products are distributed in all 50 states, USA-made, and produced with CBD derived from the industrial hemp plant.
To learn more about CBD Health Co., visit https://cbdhealthco.com .
Contact: Randall Waters (866) 684 902 www.info@enviroti.com
Source:EnviroTechnologies International Inc.