CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Equity Commonwealth (NYSE: EQC) announced today that the company will release its fourth quarter and full year 2017 operating results on Wednesday, February 14, 2018, after market close. A conference call to discuss those results will be held on Thursday, February 15, 2018, at 9:00 am Central Time. The conference call will be available via live audio webcast on the Investor Relations section of the company’s website ( www.eqcre.com ). A replay of the audio webcast will also be available following the call.
Equity Commonwealth also announced today that its Board of Trustees declared dividends on the company’s Series D Preferred Shares. A quarterly dividend of $0.40625 per Series D Preferred Share will be paid on February 15, 2018 to shareholders of record on January 30, 2018 for the period from November 15, 2017 through February 14, 2018.
About Equity Commonwealth
Equity Commonwealth (NYSE: EQC) is a Chicago based, internally managed and self-advised real estate investment trust (REIT) with commercial office properties throughout the United States. As of September 30, 2017, EQC’s portfolio is comprised of 20 properties and 11 million square feet.
Regulation FD Disclosures
We intend to use any of the following to comply with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD: press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, or our website. We routinely post important information on our website at www.eqcre.com , including information that may be deemed to be material. We encourage investors and others interested in the company to monitor these distribution channels for material disclosures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements and information within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While Equity Commonwealth management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks. Other risks and uncertainties are described under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on our website, www.eqcre.com . Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management’s control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. Equity Commonwealth assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180112005666/en/
Equity Commonwealth
Investor Contact
Sarah Byrnes, (312) 646-2801
Source: Equity Commonwealth