SAN DIEGO, Jan. 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Realty Income Corporation (Realty Income, NYSE: O), The Monthly Dividend Company ® , today announced its Board of Directors has declared an increase in the company's common stock monthly cash dividend to $0.219 per share from $0.2125 per share. The dividend is payable on February 15, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 1, 2018. This is the 95 th dividend increase since Realty Income's listing on the NYSE in 1994. The ex-dividend date for February's dividend is January 31, 2018. The new monthly dividend represents an annualized dividend amount of $2.628 per share as compared to the current annualized dividend amount of $2.55 per share.
"We are pleased that the continued success of our operations has allowed us to increase the amount of the dividend we pay to our shareholders, while still maintaining a strong dividend coverage ratio," said John P. Case, Chief Executive Officer of Realty Income. "With the payment of the February 2018 dividend, shareholders will enjoy an increase of 4% in the amount of their dividend as compared to the same month in 2017."
About the Company
Realty Income, The Monthly Dividend Company®, is an S&P 500 company dedicated to providing shareholders with dependable monthly income. The company is structured as a REIT, and its monthly dividends are supported by the cash flow from over 5,000 real estate properties owned under long-term lease agreements with regional and national commercial tenants. To date, the company has declared 571 consecutive common stock monthly dividends throughout its 49-year operating history and increased the dividend 95 times since Realty Income's public listing in 1994 (NYSE: O). The company has in-house acquisition, portfolio management, asset management, credit research, real estate research, legal, finance and accounting, information technology, and capital markets capabilities. Additional information about the company can be obtained from the corporate website at www.realtyincome.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not strictly historical are "forward-looking" statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause the company's actual future results to differ materially from expected results. These risks include, among others, general economic conditions, local real estate conditions, tenant financial health, the availability of capital to finance planned growth, continued volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets and broader financial markets, property acquisitions and the timing of these acquisitions, charges for property impairments, and the outcome of legal proceedings to which the company is a party, as described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consequently, forward-looking statements should be regarded solely as reflections of the company's current operating plans and estimates. Actual operating results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in this press release. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date these statements were made.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/realty-income-announces-dividend-increase-of-4-300583635.html
SOURCE Realty Income Corporation