NEW YORK, Jan. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Guggenheim Investments today announced that certain closed-end funds have declared their distributions. The table below summarizes the distribution schedule for each closed-end fund (collectively, the “Funds” and each, a “Fund”).
The following dates apply to the distributions:
Record Date January 12, 2018 Ex-Dividend Date January 11, 2018 Payable Date January 31, 2018
Distribution Schedule NYSE
Ticker Closed-End Fund Name Distribution
Per Share Change from Previous
Distribution Frequency AGC Advent Claymore Convertible
Securities and Income Fund II $0.047 1 Monthly AVK Advent Claymore Convertible
Securities and Income Fund $0.1164 1 $0.0004 Monthly GBAB Guggenheim Taxable Municipal
Managed Duration Trust $0.12573 Monthly GGM Guggenheim Credit
Allocation Fund $0.1813 Monthly GOF Guggenheim Strategic
Opportunities Fund $0.1821 Monthly WIA Western Asset/Claymore Inflation-
Linked Securities & Income Fund $0.0345 Monthly WIW Western Asset/Claymore
Inflation-Linked Opportunities
& Income Fund $0.0360 Monthly 1 A portion of this distribution is estimated to be a return of capital rather than income. Final determination of the character of distributions will be made at year-end. The Section 19(a) notice referenced below provides more information and can be found at www.guggenheiminvestments.com .
Past performance is not indicative of future performance. As of this announcement, the sources of each fund distribution are estimates. Distributions may be paid from sources of income other than ordinary income, such as short-term capital gains, long-term capital gains or return of capital. Unless otherwise noted, the distributions above are not anticipated to include a return of capital. If a distribution consists of something other than ordinary income, a Section 19(a) notice detailing the anticipated source(s) of the distribution will be made available. The Section 19(a) notice will be posted to a Fund’s website and to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation so that brokers can distribute such notices to Shareholders of the Fund. Section 19(a) notices are provided for informational purposes only and not for tax reporting purposes. The final determination of the source and tax characteristics of all distributions in 2017 will be made after the end of the year. This information is not legal or tax advice. Consult a professional regarding your specific legal or tax matters.
About Guggenheim Investments
Guggenheim Investments is the global asset management and investment advisory division of Guggenheim Partners, LLC (“Guggenheim”), with $243 billion * in total assets across fixed income, equity, and alternative strategies. We focus on the return and risk needs of insurance companies, corporate and public pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, endowments and foundations, consultants, wealth managers, and high-net-worth investors. Our 275+ investment professionals perform rigorous research to understand market trends and identify undervalued opportunities in areas that are often complex and underfollowed. This approach to investment management has enabled us to deliver innovative strategies providing diversification opportunities and attractive long-term results.
Guggenheim Investments includes Guggenheim Funds Investment Advisors, LLC (“GFIA”), Guggenheim Partners Investment Management (“GPIM”), Security Investors, LLC (“SI”), and Guggenheim Funds Distributors, LLC (the servicing agent for certain of the funds). GFIA serves as Investment Adviser for AGC, GBAB, GGM, and GOF . GPIM serves as Investment Sub-Adviser for GBAB, GGM and GOF. SI serves as Investment Adviser for WIW. The Investment Advisers for AVK and WIA are Advent Capital Management, LLC and Western Asset Management Company, respectively, and are not affiliated with Guggenheim.
*Guggenheim Investments total asset figure is as of 09.30.2017. The assets include leverage of $11.6bn for assets under management and $0.4bn for assets for which we provide administrative services. Guggenheim Investments represents the following affiliated investment management businesses of Guggenheim Partners, LLC: Guggenheim Partners Investment Management, LLC, Security Investors, LLC, Guggenheim Funds Investment Advisors, LLC, Guggenheim Funds Distributors, LLC, Guggenheim Real Estate, LLC, GS GAMMA Advisors, LLC, Guggenheim Partners Europe Limited, and Guggenheim Partners India Management.
This information does not represent an offer to sell securities of the Funds and it is not soliciting an offer to buy securities of the Funds. There can be no assurance that the Funds will achieve their investment objectives. Investments in the Funds involve operating expenses and fees. The net asset value of the Funds will fluctuate with the value of the underlying securities. It is important to note that closed-end funds trade on their market value, not net asset value, and closed-end funds often trade at a discount to their net asset value. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. An investment in closed-end funds is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of the entire amount that you invest. Some general risks and considerations associated with investing in a closed-end fund may include: Investment and Market Risk; Lower Grade Securities Risk; Equity Securities Risk; Foreign Securities Risk; Interest Rate Risk; Illiquidity Risk; Derivative Risk; Management Risk; Anti-Takeover Provisions; Market Disruption Risk and Leverage Risk. See www.guggenheiminvestments.com/cef for a detailed discussion of Fund-specific risks.
Investors should consider the investment objectives and policies, risk considerations, charges and expenses of any investment before they invest. For this and more information, visit www.guggenheiminvestments.com or contact a securities representative or Guggenheim Funds Distributors, LLC 227 West Monroe Street, Chicago, IL 60606, 800-345-7999.
Analyst Inquiries
William T. Korver
cefs@guggenheiminvestments.com
Not FDIC-Insured | Not Bank-Guaranteed | May Lose Value
Member FINRA/SIPC (01/18)
Source: Guggenheim Investments