MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Jan. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- RSi - Retail Solutions, Inc., which powers more On-Shelf Availability (OSA) programs than any other solution provider in the world, will be attending the FMI Midwinter Executive Conference this weekend, at the National Doral in Miami, Fla.
RSi CEO Bert Clement, Vice President of Customer Success Stuart Careford, and Vice President of US Retail Development James (Jim) Smits, look forward to meeting with top customers and partners, while unveiling RSi's latest developments surrounding OSA – a fundamental business requirement to creating a frictionless customer experience. Clement, Careford, and Smits will also focus on providing premier service to RSi partners based on building new areas of value creation.
"We are thrilled to participate in FMI Midwinter and share our latest developments around OSA," said Careford. "We are the number one provider of OSA solutions, with over 300 installs and the thought leader in this space. This is a stellar event and the timing couldn't be better to connect with some of our top tier partners."
With over 13 years of experience and focus, RSi is dedicated to delivering leading edge technologies and methodologies to address the business problems that can hinder OSA optimization. In order to enable its customers to truly drive value, RSi provides a unique multilayer approach that not only addresses out-of-stock issues, but eliminates potential lost sales by providing greater visibility at the store shelf – whether physical or digital.
"RSi is committed to customer success on every level," said Clement. "Our OSA solution was created to combat and solve the biggest issues surrounding OSA. We don't just report when you have a problem on the shelf, we solve it and then, most importantly, we prevent it from happening again. I am looking forward to further strengthening our collaborative relationships with our most valued customers. RSi has a vast history in the OSA space and we want to continue to prove our expertise by driving recaptured sales for our customers."
RSi delivers more than 88k OSA alerts daily and has captured over $1b in identified potential recaptured sales for its customers. To learn how the RSi On-Shelf Availability Suite can help organizations improve OSA performance, please visit RSIOSA.com .
About Retail Solutions, Inc.
RSi - Retail Solutions, Inc. transforms data into value -- in the store, on the shelf and with shoppers worldwide. To achieve operational excellence and measure performance daily, the world's leading companies turn to RSi to transform their data into actionable insights. As the leader in data management and retail execution, our goal is to bring operational clarity to our customers so they can operate their businesses more successfully. From solving out-of-stocks to driving inventory down, from optimizing sales strategies to determining marketing ROI, RSi helps cut costs and improve sales. For over 13 years we have been a trusted, massive data and analytics partner with more than 225 retailers and over 500 CPG companies, including such household names as Colgate-Palmolive, Nestlé, the Procter & Gamble Company and Unilever. To learn more about the RSi On-Shelf Availability Suite, visit: www.RSiOSA.com . To learn more about the company, visit: www.retailsolutions.com
Media Relations
Jessica Tobey
Industry Relations & Marketing
Jessica.tobey@retailsolutions.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rsi---retail-solutions-inc-joins-partners-at-fmi-midwinter-to-reveal-latest-on-shelf-availability-developments-300588799.html
SOURCE Retail Solutions, Inc.