EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn., CHF Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:CHFS), today announces the appointment of Vitaliy Epshteyn (age 40) as its vice president of operations and engineering.
Mr. Epshteyn joins CHF Solutions with 20 years of leadership, management and engineering experience, primarily in the medical device industry. Most recently, he served as chief technology officer and senior director of Engineering of the medical business unit at TE Connectivity, which is focused on providing interconnectivity and interventional solutions to key medical original equipment manufacturers. Mr. Epshteyn was instrumental in leading organic and expansion business strategies, which included the acquisition and integration of AdvancedCath, Inc. and Creganna Medical. Prior, he held several leadership roles at St. Jude Medical -- which was since acquired by Abbott -- including site leader and senior research and development director for its Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) division. While there, he was responsible for the rapid development and commercialization of multiple key product lines, including CRM lead delivery tools, an electromagnetic navigation system, and a renal denervation ablation catheter and generator.
Mr. Epshteyn holds two US patents for manufacturing methods and medical device development. He earned a bachelor of engineering degree from the University of Minnesota and an MBA from the University of St. Thomas in Minnesota.
“Vitaliy provides CHF Solutions with an important core competency in running our manufacturing operations, which will be critical to our future success,” said John Erb, president, CEO and chairman of CHF Solutions, Inc. “Further, his engineering background will be instrumental in collaborating with our research and development team, as we seek to make improvements and enhancements to our Aquadex FlexFlow system for Aquapharesis® therapy.”
About CHF Solutions
CHF Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:CHFS) is a medical device company focused on commercializing the Aquadex FlexFlow system for Aquapheresis® therapy. The Aquadex FlexFlow system is indicated for temporary (up to eight hours) ultrafiltration treatment of patients with fluid overload who have failed diuretic therapy, and extended (longer than 8 hours) ultrafiltration treatment of patients with fluid overload who have failed diuretic therapy and require hospitalization. All treatments must be administered by a healthcare provider, under physician prescription, both of whom having received training in extracorporeal therapies. The company's mission is to predict, measure, and control patient fluid balance through science, collaboration, and innovative medical technology. CHF Solutions is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota with wholly owned subsidiaries in Australia and Ireland. The company has been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market since February 2012.
CONTACTS:
INVESTORS:
Claudia Napal Drayton
Chief Financial Officer
CHF Solutions, Inc.
952-345-4205
ir@chf-solutions.com
-or-
Bret Shapiro
Managing Partner
CORE IR
516-222-2560
brets@coreir.com
www.coreir.com
MEDIA
Jules Abraham
JQA Partners, Inc.
917-885-7378
jabraham@jqapartners.com
Source:CHF Solutions, Inc.