ATLANTA, Jan. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Southern Company plans to release its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2017 by 7:30 a.m. EST on Wednesday, February 21.
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas A. Fanning and Chief Financial Officer Art P. Beattie will discuss earnings during a conference call for financial analysts at 1 p.m. EST on Wednesday, February 21.
Investors, media and the public may listen to a live webcast of the conference call at http://investor.southerncompany.com/webcasts by clicking on the appropriate audio link. A replay of the webcast will be available at the same site for 12 months.
About Southern Company
Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is America's premier energy company, with 46,000 megawatts of generating capacity and 1,500 billion cubic feet of combined natural gas consumption and throughput volume serving 9 million customers through its subsidiaries. The company provides clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy through electric operating companies in four states, natural gas distribution companies in seven states, a competitive generation company serving wholesale customers across America and a nationally recognized provider of customized energy solutions, as well as fiber optics and wireless communications. Southern Company brands are known for excellent customer service, high reliability and affordable prices that are below the national average. Through an industry-leading commitment to innovation, Southern Company and its subsidiaries are inventing America's energy future by developing the full portfolio of energy resources, including carbon-free nuclear, 21 st century coal, natural gas, renewables and energy efficiency, and creating new products and services for the benefit of customers. Southern Company has been named by the U.S. Department of Defense and G.I. Jobs magazine as a top military employer, recognized among the Top 50 Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc, listed by Black Enterprise magazine as one of the 40 Best Companies for Diversity and designated a Top Employer for Hispanics by Hispanic Network. Visit our website at www.southerncompany.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/southern-company-fourth-quarter-earnings-to-be-released-february-21-300587474.html
SOURCE Southern Company