WISeKey Announces Full Year 2017 Preliminary Results and Early Adoption of Topic 606 Accounting Method
Full-year 2017 preliminary unaudited pro forma revenue of $54.3 million (including Quovadis as of January 1, 2017, up 395% from 2016, in-line with WISeKey's guidance)
WISeKey outpaces market with record 2017 CyberSecurity and IoT revenue, up 395% from previous year; IoT Cybersecurity Adoption Soaring due to WISeKey's Semiconductor products with embedded security which are immune to hardware bugs such as Meltdown and Spectre.
Full Year 2017 Highlights (prior to the adoption of Topic 606 accounting method):
Full-year 2017 preliminary unaudited pro forma revenue of $54.3 million (including Quovadis as of January 1, 2017, up 395% from 2016, in-line with WISeKey's guidance). Growth was driven by higher revenues from the Cybersecurity, IoT and Semiconductor business for new sectors requiring strong security on their semiconductors such as smart car, luxury, pharmaceutical and fintech industries. WISeKey adopted US GAAP Topic 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" as of January 1, 2017 with the objective of providing enhanced financial transparency ahead of its 2018 ADR II program on the NASDAQ. Expands its customer base and ecosystem to over 3,500 customers. Strong liquidity and financial position; improved operating performance resulted in cash of $12.0 million at December 31, 2017, up $6.8 million from December 31, 2016.
ZUG, Switzerland- January 12, 2018 - WISeKey International Holding Ltd (" WISeKey " or the " Company ") (SIX: WIHN) a leading Swiss cybersecurity and IoT company announced today its preliminary financial results for 2017. All 2017 figures in this release are unaudited and estimated due to the preliminary nature of the announcement.
Customer adoption for IoT Cybersecurity services continued to accelerate in 2017, reaching more than 3,500 customers across all regions at the end of 2017 (more than doubling year-over-year), mainly due to our integrated vertical trusted platform which combines a range of chips with software applications that cater to our customers' security and business needs. Our software application offerings include proprietary technology developed by the Company such as RoT and Public Key Infrastructure ("PKI"), which are offered as standalone products, as well as part of our fully integrated Vertical Trusted Platform that enables WISeKey's clients to manage their digital identity, information, and communications through a seamless process. We enable our clients to easily adapt to a continuously changing landscape of services designed specifically for their needs, without compromising their digital security. The rapid growth and proliferation of internet based devices, as well as people's dependence on them for personal and business needs, precipitated the connectivity of digital devices. However, such connectivity creates numerous opportunities to alter or manipulate digital footprints. We believe that our integrated products provide the most comprehensive solution to fill these gaps in cybersecurity and data protection. The core of WISeKey's Vertical Trusted Platform is based on our Cybersecurity SaaS business, also known as managed PKI services, and on our Semiconductor chips.
WISeKey ISTANA PKI platform allowed WISeKey to enter the Connected Car industry in 2017 by offering manufacturers a secure way to validate the authenticity of different vehicle components. Certificate-based security also protects onboard communication between vehicle components and enables secure over-the-air software updates. Additionally, authentication certificates can be used by employees, dealers and suppliers to access car components to diagnose mechanical/technical issues and update software, from any location. Finally, the ISTANA PKI platform allows users to securely interact with a car's smart features using smartphones and other devices. Currently, WISeKey is working with several smart car manufacturers and its ISTANA PKI platform is already active in several large-scale projects. A recent example is a strategic contract signed with a leading European automobile manufacturer, cementing its role in the Connected Car industry. WISeKey's total identifiable 5-year ISTANA revenues from the car manufacturing industry are expected to be in excess of $30 million, of which approximately $7.0 million are expected to be realized in 2018.
WISeKey has adopted Topic 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" as of January 1, 2017 with the objective of providing enhanced financial transparency ahead of 2018 ADR II program on the NASDAQ.
In order to facilitate investors' forward-looking comparability of its financial statements ahead of our ADR II program on the NASDAQ in the first half of 2018, Wisekey has decided to early adopt Topic 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" as of January 1, 2017. Topic 606 adoption results in deferring certain 2017-acquired-Quovadis stand-alone certificate revenue transactions, which will be recognized typically over 1- 3 years, against performance obligations that are key to the satisfaction of the customer, but merely require the operation of an already running IT infrastructure. For the 2017 transactions concerned by this change, revenue will be recognized ratably (from 2017 to 2020), depending on the timing and the validity of the issued certificate, rather than recognized immediately in 2017. Topic 606 adoption will not impact reported Cash and Cash Equivalents and Net Cash Provided by Operations, since invoices for certificates remain payable at the beginning of the certificate validity period. Topic 606 also requires WISeKey to provide enhanced disclosure on its revenue categories to describe how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Going forward, as part of increased disclosures WISeKey will also report on a Revenue] performance indicator which is defined as Revenue reported as per Topic 606 plus Deferred Revenues for certain stand-alone certificate transactions. This approach will closely match Revenue as it was previously defined and used by WISeKey, and management is planning to use it to monitor and report the Company's growth as it provides a higher correlation with actual business performance. The preliminary unaudited revenue for 2017 under Topic 606 is expected to amount to approximately USD 43.0 million, up 261% from 2016. The 2016 revenue is expected to remain unchanged.
Under the previous accounting approach Wisekey's pro-forma 2017 revenue (including Quovadis as of January 1st, 2017) would have reached approximately USD 54.3 million, up 395% from 2016.
"WISeKey delivered exceptional historical results for the 2017, with revenue of $43 million under the new accounting approach, an increase of over 261% year-over-year reflecting the successful integration of the IoT and Cybersecurity assets into the Company," said Carlos Moreira, WISeKey's Founder and Chief Executive Officer. "We have noticed a strong demand across the combined product portfolio as the market for IoT - MicroChips associated with PKI and Cybersecurity, is increasing globally. Not only are WISeKey's products immune