Honorees to be recognized during award ceremony on January 25 th
EUGENE, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Arcimoto, Inc. ® (NASDAQ: FUV) — makers of the world’s first Fun Utility Vehicle ® (FUV ® ), an affordable and practical pure electric vehicle for everyday commuters and fleets, today announced the selection of Mark Frohnmayer, Founder and President of Arcimoto, as an Executive of the Year by the Portland Business Journal .
Frohnmayer will be recognized as part of the Portland Business Journal 2018 Executive of the Year Awards ceremony on January 25 th , which celebrates the biggest movers and shakers within the region’s business community. The ceremony will host a series of brief on-stage interviews with the 10 honorees, who will share the strategies and philosophies that led to the very best performances of 2017.
Frohnmayer has guided Eugene-based Arcimoto from a napkin sketch in 2007 to a publicly traded company on the NASDAQ Capital Market after raising nearly $20 million through a Regulation A+ IPO. In October, Arcimoto signed a lease on the new Arcimoto Manufacturing Plant (AMP), a 30,000-square foot production site in Eugene that is expected to employ up to 250 people at capacity. The Company started production of its affordable, efficient and fun three-wheeled electric vehicle at the end of 2017, and has delivered vehicles to its first two paying customers – Frohnmayer and Actor Nathan Fillion.
“I am honored to accept this award on behalf of the Arcimoto team,” said Mark Frohnmayer, Founder and CEO, of Arcimoto. “Our last year was powered by very creative and passionate people exercising true leadership and just going for it. I am humbled and inspired daily by this group’s willingness to diligently tackle an intractable global problem and have fun while they’re doing it.”
Additional honorees include: Vacasa , ESI , Lithia Motors , Dutch Bros. , Adidas , Schnitzer Steel , Brazi Bites , Schmidt’s Naturals and DiscoverOrg, LLC . The ceremony will be held at the Sentinel Hotel. Purchase tickets here to attend the awards ceremony.
About Arcimoto
Headquartered and manufactured in Eugene, Oregon, Arcimoto, Inc. (NASDAQ: FUV) is devising new technologies and patterns of mobility that together raise the bar for environmental efficiency, footprint and affordability. Available for pre-order with a target price of $11,900, Arcimoto’s FUV defines the Fun Utility Vehicle category: it’s the lightest, most affordable and performance-packed electric vehicle suitable for the daily driver. For more information please visit www.arcimoto.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180124005890/en/
Skyya for Arcimoto
Megan Kathman, 651-785-3212
megan@skyya.com
Source: Arcimoto, Inc.