NORTH CANTON, Ohio, Jan. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Diebold Nixdorf (NYSE: DBD), a world leader in driving connected commerce, today announced that Mark S. Brewer has joined the company as senior vice president and managing director, Global Retail. Brewer is responsible for leading the company's retail connected commerce strategy and operations, including business development, customer relationship management and global sales. As a member of Diebold Nixdorf's senior leadership team, he will report to Juergen Wunram, Diebold Nixdorf interim co-president and co-CEO.
Brewer comes to Diebold Nixdorf from DXC Technology, where he most recently served as global vice president, Enterprise and Cloud Applications. Prior to this, he spent many years in leadership roles at IBM. Brewer's roles at IBM included group general manager, Global Technology Services, for IBM Australia; vice president, North America retail, consumer packaged goods, travel and transportation industries; managing director Retail Industries, North America; and various solution and sales leadership roles in IBM Europe.
"Mark's extensive retail industry and technology services experience, as well as his strong track record across the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, give us the opportunity to capitalize on our strategic opportunities within the retail industry and further deliver solutions that surpass consumer demands," said Wunram. "He is a perfect fit to lead our retail team and execute our retail growth strategy around the world." Brewer is based at the company's headquarters facility in North Canton.
A native of the U.K., currently residing in northern Virginia, Brewer received a bachelor's degree, with honors, in Systems Design and Mathematics from the University West of England, Bristol, U.K.
About Diebold Nixdorf
Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated (NYSE: DBD) is a world leader in enabling connected commerce for millions of consumers each day across the financial and retail industries. Its software-defined solutions bridge the physical and digital worlds of cash and consumer transactions conveniently, securely and efficiently. As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, Diebold Nixdorf delivers unparalleled services and technology that are essential to evolve in an 'always on' and changing consumer landscape.
Diebold Nixdorf has a presence in more than 130 countries with approximately 24,000 employees worldwide. The organization maintains corporate offices in North Canton, Ohio, USA and Paderborn, Germany. Shares are traded on the New York and Frankfurt Stock Exchanges under the symbol 'DBD'. Visit www.DieboldNixdorf.com for more information.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/diebold-nixdorf-names-brewer-to-lead-its-global-retail-business-300581388.html
SOURCE Diebold Nixdorf