New York, NY, Furnished Quarters, the largest independently owned and operated provider of temporary furnished apartments , announced today that Doris Kampf has joined the Furnished Quarters team as Senior Director of Global Sales.
Well respected in the corporate housing and global mobility industries, Kampf brings more than 25 years of relevant experience to this newly created role. She has expertise in managing large corporate accounts on a global scale, and has exhibited top performance in strategic growth development.
Prior to joining Furnished Quarters, Kampf served as Vice President of Global Sales in the Managed Services Division of ReloQuest. Before ReloQuest, Kampf held senior sales management roles at corporate housing companies Oakwood and BridgeStreet.
Each year of her employment at BridgeStreet, Kampf was awarded “Top Gun” for being the company’s number one salesperson. She was also a member of Oakwood’s Platinum Circle of Excellence in recognition of her achievements in sales.
“We are so pleased to welcome Doris as our company continues to expand its global furnished housing solutions ,” said Craig Partin, Chief Sales Officer of Furnished Quarters. “Her sales expertise and ability to build strong client relationships will benefit the company’s growth strategy.”
About Furnished Quarters
Furnished Quarters is the largest independently owned and operated supplier of global temporary housing, offering over 100,000 fully furnished apartments in more than 800 cities around the world. The company, established in 1998 in New York City by brothers Steven and Gary Brown, currently serves more than 5,500 clients, ranging from top Fortune 500 corporations to small businesses. In late 2015, Furnished Quarters opened Q&A Residential Hotel in Lower Manhattan to offer nightly and weekly stays in full-sized apartments. For more information visit furnishedquarters.com .
Doris Kampf, Senior Director of Global Sales, Furnished Quarters
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/f8893ed7-be88-4d6f-a995-2465ad30d360
Attachments:
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/3b3d3000-c4b5-40ad-b5c5-670b2ee0ce5d
Robin Spindel Furnished Quarters 212.367.9400 ext. 4333 Robin.Spindel@FurnishedQuarters.com
Source: Furnished Quarters