AUSTIN, Texas, Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- ESO Solutions, Inc ., the leading data and software company serving emergency medical services (EMS), fire departments and hospitals, today announced the addition of Matt Walker as Chief Operating Officer. In this role, Walker will focus on the success of ESO's customers, attracting and retaining talent, acquisition integration as well as building out the processes and tools necessary to scale the business as it experiences rapid growth.
"Matt brings a level of insight, business acumen and leadership expertise that will be invaluable to ESO as we realize our ambitions and deliver on our mission and vision for the industry," said Chris Dillie, President and CEO of ESO. "Matt has a unique blend of operations and general management experience that makes him eminently qualified to help us capitalize on the tremendous growth opportunities ahead of us. I am confident in Matt's ability to help us remain the market and innovation leader, scale our business and ensure our customers are successful."
Walker brings more than 25 years of experience helping businesses support their customers, scale their operations and deliver on their commitments. His accomplishments include improving business processes, leading and developing teams as well as the implementation of technology to enhance customer success. Most recently, he was the President, West Region, for Sharecare Health Data Services, a provider of secure electronic exchange, delivery and integration of Protected Health Information (PHI) to thousands of Healthcare Providers across the United States. Prior to Sharecare, Walker was the President, NIGP and Vendor Services, for Periscope Holdings. Walker holds an MBA in finance, marketing and health services management from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University.
"ESO has built an incredible portfolio of products that solves real-world problems for EMS agencies, fire departments and hospitals. We have the opportunity to partner with customers to greatly improve the health and safety of communities across the country," added Walker. "I'm honored to join this team and looking forward to what we can accomplish with the ESO team, our customers and partners, and the communities we serve."
About ESO Solutions
ESO Solutions, Inc. is dedicated to improving community health and safety through the power of data. Since its founding in 2004, the company has been a pioneer in electronic patient care records (ePCR) software for emergency medical services, fire departments and ambulance services. Today, ESO serves more than 13,000 agencies throughout the U.S. The company's healthcare, public safety and technology experts deliver the most innovative software and data solutions on the market, including the industry-leading ESO Electronic Health Record (EHR) ; ESO Health Data Exchange (HDE) , the first-of-its-kind healthcare interoperability platform; record management system (RMS) for fire departments; and ambulance revenue recovery/billing software . ESO is also playing a leading role in helping EMS provider organizations across the nation successfully transition to NEMSIS Version 3 and new state standards for electronic patient care reporting.
ESO is headquartered in Austin, Texas. For more information, visit www.esosolutions.com .
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/eso-names-matt-walker-chief-operating-officer-300589068.html
SOURCE ESO Solutions, Inc.