Everyone is familiar with the saying, "Don't put all your eggs in one basket." Even in Shakespeare's play, "The Merchant of Venice," written more than 400 years ago, the character Antonio demonstrates his understanding of the concept when he says: "I thank my fortune for it — my ventures are not in one bottom trusted, nor to one place, nor is my whole estate upon the fortune of this present year."
Harry Markowitz's modern portfolio theory Though savvy investors, like Shakespeare's Antonio, have long understood the benefits of diversification, it was not until the 1950s when an academic named Harry Markowitz introduced research on what he called modern portfolio theory that people were able to understand diversification in an objective, mathematical sense. This research was so groundbreaking it earned Markowitz a trip to Sweden to pick up a Nobel Prize.
Today, more than four centuries after Shakespeare and 65 years after Markowitz, I just can't help but feel the need to emphasize the importance of this same basic principle. If the amount of time an idea sticks around is any testament to its value, diversification is clearly very valuable to investors. In fact, diversification is so important for investors to understand, I will even risk beating a 400-year-old dead horse to tell you why it is so important to investors who are using their portfolios to fund their financial goals. Let's start with Markowitz's research on portfolio theory.
Diversification is the only free lunch in finance The oldest rule in the financial book is that risk and return are related. If you want a higher expected return, you have to take on more risk. If you want to lower risk, you can only do so at the cost of expected return.
Though I always like to specify that the volatility or variability of a portfolio is not necessarily risk to a lifetime investor, in order to objectively evaluate the risk level of investment portfolios for research purposes, variability of portfolio returns is what is used. If you want a higher expected return, you have to accept more variability in your portfolio. If you want less variability, it will cost you as far as expected return.
Advisors 