STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Nestlé Waters North America (NWNA) announced today that Tom Smith has been named President, Customer Development and Sales Operations, effective Monday, January 15, 2018.
Smith, formerly Chief Integration Officer for Nestlé Business Excellence (NBE) in North America, will oversee Nestlé Waters North America's sales operations in the United States. Smith will serve as a member of the NWNA Executive Team and will report to Fernando Mercé, President and Chief Executive Officer.
At NBE, Smith was responsible for leading the successful integration and implementation of a series of projects to standardize and streamline key services in Nestlé companies across the U.S. market. Smith brings to NWNA more than 30 years of sales experience and has held numerous management positions within the sales organizations of Nestlé companies. Before moving to NBE, Smith served as President of the Nestlé Walmart Team where he was the strategic leader and single point of contact for Nestlé with Walmart on all matters across Nestlé companies. Additionally, he was President of Nestlé Business Services for all Nestlé companies in North America. He has also served as President for the Nestlé Sales Division for Nestlé USA; Vice President Sales Operations & Customer Development for Nestlé USA; Division Vice President, Category Sales Development for Nestlé Chocolate & Confections; and Division Vice President, Category Sales Development for Friskies® PetCare. Smith began his career with Nestlé in 1985 and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Providence College.
"I am delighted that Tom will be joining the Nestlé Waters North America family," said Fernando Mercé, President and Chief Executive Officer, Nestlé Waters North America. "His more than thirty years of sales experience will help to strengthen our core business as we look to identify new areas of growth and further our leadership position in the bottled water industry."
"As America's number one beverage of choice, more and more consumers are choosing bottled water over carbonated soft drinks," said Tom Smith. "I'm looking forward to leading the sales organization at NWNA and delivering profitable growth that drives the company's healthy hydration ambitions."
Smith replaces John Zupo, who is leaving NWNA to pursue opportunities outside of the company. "We are grateful for John's dedication to Nestlé Waters North America over the past 19 years, and we wish him the best in his future endeavors," said Mercé.
About Nestlé Waters North America
Nestlé Waters North America provides people with an unrivaled portfolio of bottled waters for healthy hydration. Brands such as Poland Spring ® , Nestlé ® Pure Life ® , Perrier ® and S. Pellegrino ® have driven Nestlé Waters North America to be the third largest non-alcoholic beverage company by volume in the U.S. Nestlé Waters North America also owns and operates ReadyRefresh SM by Nestlé ® , the largest home and office water delivery service by volume in the U.S. Based in Stamford, Connecticut with some 8,500 associates, Nestlé Waters is committed to reducing its environmental footprint across its operations. As a natural resource company, Nestlé Waters sustainably manages our 47 spring sources and maintains 21,000 acres of natural watershed area. The company is also committed to creating shared value and being a good neighbor in the 140 communities where it operates in the U.S.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nestle-waters-north-america-names-tom-smith-as-president-of-customer-development-and-sales-operations-300579367.html
SOURCE Nestlé Waters North America