WASHINGTON, Jan. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Leading regulatory and litigation law firm Amin Talati Upadhye has announced that Katie Bond has joined the firm as a Partner in the Washington, D.C. Office.
Focused on the industries of food and beverages, nutritional supplements, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, Amin Talati Upadhye provides full legal services for the lifecycle of products aimed at improving the population's health and wellness.
"We are thrilled by the initial success of our Washington, DC office led by Ivan Wasserman," said Ashish Talati , a founding partner, "and we plan to build on that success by strategically adding industry-leading professionals with the right skills and experience to support our clients and the industries we serve. We can think of no one that fits that description better than Katie Bond. With years of experience gained at leading law firms, she has become the go-to attorney for many of world's most innovative food, nutritional supplement, drug, and cosmetic companies."
Recognized by Super Lawyers as a Washington, D.C. "Rising Star" and recommended in the US Legal 500 for her work in the Marketing & Advertising area, Katie not only regularly advises companies of all sizes on developing effective and compliant marketing campaigns, she also has considerable experience responding to FTC and state attorney general investigations, defending consumer class actions, and initiating and responding to self-regulatory challenges before the National Advertising Division (NAD) and the Electronic Retailing Self-Regulation Program (ERSP).
"Amin Talati's broad client base in the food and drug space, and its sophisticated regulatory and intellectual property practices, make it an ideal platform for me and my clients," said Ms. Bond. "I am honored to be joining this group of diverse and dedicated professionals, and in particular to helping Ivan continue to develop the office into a leader in Washington, D.C.'s legal community."
Amin Talati Upadhye represents well-known brands in the areas of food and beverage, supplements, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals in regulatory compliance, product development, product launch, patent and trademark, and litigation and enforcement matters. Amin Talati Upadhye attorneys have legal degrees and backgrounds focused on intellectual property and government regulations and undergraduate degrees in areas such as pharmacy, molecular biology, food science and human nutrition, organic chemistry and bio-medical engineering. For more information visit AminTalati.com .
Contact
Amin Talati Upadhye, LLP
Ivan Wasserman, 202-496-4966
Ivan@AminTalati.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amin-talati-expands-in-washington-dc-with-addition-of-prominent-advertising-and-marketing-attorney-300578673.html
SOURCE Amin Talati Upadhye, LLP