BOSTON, Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- BioBridges, a Career Portfolio® Management company providing integrated services to the life sciences community, proudly announces the promotion of Mary Bielefeld to senior financial analyst. Mary joined the BioBridges community as an accounting assistant in 2014 and most recently held the position of financial analyst.
"Mary's combined financial experience, commitment to customer service, passion for learning and dedication to her work are as impressive as the many contributions she has made over the years," said Jason Falchuk. "We look forward to her continued success as she helps us better understand the data that supports the growth of our business."
As senior financial analyst, Mary will continue to work directly with clients, professionals and internal staff to ensure that we are using modern, innovative tools that streamline payroll processing, accounts receivables and contract management. She will develop and enhance financial reports comparing current actual and year-to-date performance with prior year, forecast and budget results. Mary will research and analyze current trends to help better understand the successes of our business and enable the development and deployment of short and long-term growth plans.
"I am extremely proud to be part of an organization that is dedicated and committed to the growth of its employees," said Mary Bielefeld. "I look forward to leveraging my current skills while continuing to expand my knowledge base and support the advancement and expansion of the BioBridges community."
About BioBridges
BioBridges helps exceptional pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device professionals pursue the work about which they are inspired. The company's scalable Career Portfolio® Management model allows highly skilled professionals to focus on the work about which they are passionate while collaborating with clients to advance science and produce therapies for patients who need them. For more information, please visit www.biobridges.com .
Media Contact
Amy Steinberg
Phone: 781.591.4740
Email: asteinberg@biobridges.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/biobridges-promotes-mary-bielefeld-to-senior-financial-analyst-300579585.html
SOURCE BioBridges