NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- L3 Technologies (NYSE:LLL) announced today that retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Patrick J. “Pat” O’Reilly has been appointed as corporate Vice President of Engineering, effective immediately.
In this newly created position, Mr. O’Reilly will report to L3’s Chief Technology Officer, Paul DeLia. He joins L3 following a distinguished career with the Army Ordnance Corps, and he also served for several years as Director of the U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA). Since retiring from the military in 2013, he has served as an advisor and board member with a number of agencies, focusing on business, government policy and technology development, STEM education initiatives, and international security.
“Pat brings extensive systems engineering and management expertise that will advance cross-segment innovations and identify promising new technologies within L3,” said Christopher E. Kubasik, L3’s Chief Executive Officer and President. “His understanding of current DoD priorities and his successful track record in managing large, complex programs will help us better coordinate capabilities across our businesses and accelerate the development and delivery of state-of-the-art solutions.”
“As our customers ask us to develop increasingly complex systems, Pat’s extensive expertise in aerospace, electronics and physics will help guide our engineering teams to implement cost-effective innovations that address evolving marketplace needs,” added Mr. DeLia. “I look forward to the contributions Pat will make in coordinating a wide range of technical activities to deliver scales of economy and establish best practices.”
Mr. O’Reilly’s Army career included serving as the project manager for directed energy, the Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3), Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD), and Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) programs, as well as high-profile assignments in combat service support. His MDA experience encompasses oversight of all U.S. missile defense programs, including the development of missile defense technologies and deployment for the protection of U.S. armed forces and allies. In addition to his military career, Mr. O’Reilly is a U.S. Military Academy graduate and holds master’s degrees in physics from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, in management from Salve Regina University, and in national security and international studies from the U.S. Naval War College.
Headquartered in New York City, L3 Technologies employs approximately 38,000 people worldwide and is a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 is also a prime contractor in aerospace systems, security and detection systems, and pilot training. The company reported 2016 sales of $10.5 billion.
To learn more about L3, please visit the company’s website at www.L3T.com . L3 uses its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding L3 is routinely posted on the company’s website and is readily accessible.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the company’s Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements included in the company’s recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180109005459/en/
L3 Technologies
Corporate Communications
212-697-1111
Source: L3 Technologies