SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Grand Rounds , a San Francisco-based health technology company, today announced that Wade Chambers has joined the leadership team as CTO and SVP, Engineering. Chambers has built a successful track record of delivering technology innovation and business growth to companies of all sizes, from serving early-stage startups Proofpoint and TellApart as VP engineering, to public technology companies as VP platform at Yahoo and VP engineering at Twitter.
“In Wade, we’ve found a proven engineering leader who embraces our massive technical vision for addressing the most pressing needs of our employer customers,” said Owen Tripp, CEO and co-founder of Grand Rounds. “Wade’s experience will accelerate development of the next generation of product and talent needed to create value for our members and customers and to propel growth for the company.”
Grand Rounds is currently serving over 100 employer customers and 3.5 million covered lives. Named by Rock Health as the 2018 fastest growing company in digital health , and to Forbes’ Cloud 100 , the company has built a matching engine to connect employees with the highest quality care available.
“Grand Rounds puts the power in the hands of its members to find meaningful, high-quality health care when they need it,” said Chambers. “I joined Grand Rounds because I believe it is one of the best opportunities for a technologist to change the face of health care and advance real solutions to real people in real time.”
Learn more about Chambers’ journey to Grand Rounds and vision for the engineering team on the Grand Rounds blog .
About Grand Rounds
Grand Rounds ’ vision is to create a path to great health and health care, for everyone, everywhere. Founded in 2011, the company provides an employer-based platform that delivers improved outcomes for patients and their families. It does this through an end-to-end solution that connects patients with care informed by the latest and best practices—preventing and correcting misdiagnoses and unnecessary or failed treatments. Named second among Glassdoor’s 2016 Best Places to Work , Grand Rounds helps restore individual health and quality of life, and offers employers lower health care spend and higher employee productivity. For more information, please visit www. grandrounds.com .
Grand Rounds Press Contact:
Robin Suchan
Corporate Relations
415-792-5322
robin.suchan@grandrounds.com
Source: Grand Rounds