GERMANTOWN, Md., Jan. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Intrexon Corporation (NYSE: XON) announced today that it has priced its previously announced underwritten public offering of common stock consisting of 6,000,000 shares at a public offering price of $12.50 per share. In addition, Intrexon has granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 900,000 shares of common stock offered in the public offering.
The offering is expected to close on January 19, 2018, subject to customary closing conditions. Gross proceeds to Intrexon from the offering are expected to be approximately $75 million before deducting the underwriting discount and other offering expenses payable by Intrexon and excluding any exercise of the underwriters' option.
JMP Securities LLC is acting as sole book-running manager and Stifel is acting as lead manager for the offering. Northland Capital Markets is acting as co-manager.
The public offering is being made pursuant an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and became effective on September 1, 2017. A final prospectus supplement relating to the offering will be filed with the SEC and will be available on the website of the SEC at www.sec.gov . When available, copies of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus relating to the offering may also be obtained from JMP Securities LLC, 600 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, California 94111, Attention: Prospectus Department, by calling +1 (415) 835-8985, or by email at syndicate@jmpsecurities.com .
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Intrexon Corporation
Intrexon Corporation (NYSE: XON) is Powering the Bioindustrial Revolution with Better DNA™ to create biologically-based products that improve the quality of life and the health of the planet. Intrexon's integrated technology suite provides its partners across diverse markets with industrial-scale design and development of complex biological systems delivering unprecedented control, quality, function, and performance of living cells.
Trademarks
Intrexon and Powering the Bioindustrial Revolution with Better DNA, and Better DNA are trademarks of Intrexon and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding the proposed public offering. Various factors may cause differences between Intrexon's expectations and actual results, including risks and uncertainties associated with market conditions and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions related to the proposed offering. More information about potential factors that could affect Intrexon's business and financial results is contained in its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. Intrexon does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect future events or circumstances.
For more information about Intrexon Corporation, contact:
Investor Contact:
Thomas Shrader, PhD
Vice President, Communications & Strategy
investors@intrexon.com
Corporate Contact:
Marie Rossi, PhD
Director, Technical Communications
Tel: +1 (301) 556-9850
publicrelations@intrexon.com
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/intrexon-prices-public-offering-of-common-stock-300583874.html
SOURCE Intrexon Corporation