OMAHA, Neb., Jan. 9, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Carson Group, a coaching and partnership organization for growth-focused advisors, today announced new executive positions for select individuals taking larger strategic roles to support the continued growth of the organization. Aaron Schaben will now serve as Executive Vice President, David Screnar as Chief Financial Officer and Scott Kubie as Chief Investment Officer. These new roles are the latest move by Carson Group to better serve advisors, evolve as a leading solution provider and continue pushing change in the profession.
In his previous role, Aaron Schaben was responsible for building and developing Carson Group Partners, a turnkey integrated partnership designed to help advisors serve clients and grow their business. Since inception, Carson Group Partners has rapidly evolved from a concept to a proven partnership that now serves hundreds of advisors in nearly 60 locations around the country. Schaben's newly assigned role will be expanded to include oversight of the Carson Group organization, where he will help identify growth solutions for the firm and, by extension, for the thousands of advisors associated with Carson Group Partners and Carson Group Coaching.
Schaben will continue to work closely alongside Teri Shepherd, Chief Operations Officer of Carson Group, to identify opportunities for the firm, communicate company strategy, streamline operations, and evaluate organizational progress to ensure alignment with Carson Group's culture and values.
"Someone once told me the best thing you can do as an entrepreneur is hire the best people you can find – and get the heck out of their way," said Ron Carson, CEO and founder of Carson Group. "I feel I've embraced that advice wholeheartedly, as evidenced by the leaders I've hired. We have a 'grow our own' mentality when it comes to adding bright people and capable leaders, and, I couldn't be more excited for the expansion of our executive team. Aaron is one of those people who challenges my thinking, which has been extremely healthy for our evolution. I'm excited to see Aaron grow into his new responsibilities and take on a more significant role for Carson Group."
"I'm enthusiastic about the opportunity to continue listening to advisors and building solutions that help them deliver for their clients," added Aaron Schaben. "I fell in love with this profession after seeing the value it provided to my parents during the sale of their business. I'm passionate about helping advisor business owners take their business to the next level, love what they do and exert that same client impact in the moments that matter."
Ron Carson remains the firm's CEO and founder. The expansion of the executive team brings diverse perspective to Carson Group's company vision and allows Carson more time to focus on strategy and connecting with advisors. His active involvement with the organization, whereby he will serve primarily as the firm's visionary leader, will continue long-term and reinforce his ongoing commitment to making Carson Group a household brand in financial services.
New Additions to the Carson Group Executive Team
David Screnar was hired in September as Chief Financial Officer, and Scott Kubie was recently promoted to Chief Investment Officer. Both Screnar and Kubie introduce specialized skillsets to the leadership team that will prime Carson Group for its next phase of growth.
Screnar brings more than a decade of outside-the-industry experience to the team and will oversee the coordination of all fiscal reporting, track the health of the business, focus on infusing a decision framework that will help accelerate growth, and formalize departmental budgets to align with the company's strategic goals.
Kubie harbors an extensive 20-year background of asset management and technical market expertise as a strategist on over $7 billion of assets. He will lead the expansion of Carson Group's investment management and research teams.
"The expertise and thought leadership we've added to our already-talented team positions us for an exciting year ahead, but what's even more important is these leaders stand behind what we believe in culturally," said Teri Shepherd, Chief Operations Officer for Carson Group. "Finding the right people who believe in the same mission and who are all driven by an intrinsic, unified purpose is a rare thing – and we're lucky enough to bring that together here at Carson."
About Carson Group
Carson Group Holdings ("Carson Group"), serves financial advisors and investors through its businesses including Carson Wealth, Carson Group Coaching, and Carson Group Partners. The conglomerate of companies offers coaching and partnership services to advisor firms – and straightforward financial advice to the investing public.
Founded in 1983, Carson Wealth has grown to become a Barron's Hall of Fame firm, serving clients through holistic financial planning, disciplined investment strategies, and proactive personal service.
Founded in 1993, Carson Group Coaching is a leading national financial advisor coaching and resource program designed to help growth-minded advisors build their businesses through coaching support, tested action plans, and accountability that drive proven results.
Founded in 2012, Carson Group Partners simplifies the complexity of running a wealth management firm by managing and executing marketing, compliance, technology, investment management, and operations for advisor firms.
All three organizations are headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, and share a common mission to be the most trusted for financial advice. For more information, visit www.carsongroup.com .
Carson Wealth and Carson Group Partners are DBA as CWM, LLC. Securities offered through Cetera Advisor Networks LLC, Member FINRA/SIPC. Investment advisory services offered through CWM, LLC, an SEC Registered Investment Advisor. Cetera Advisor Networks LLC is under separate ownership from any other named entity.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/carson-group-expands-executive-leadership-team-adds-new-positions-300579806.html
SOURCE Carson Group