NEW YORK, Jan. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Bluerock Capital Markets, LLC (BCM) announced today that it has hired Rebekah Brooks to serve as Senior Vice President of National Accounts. Ms. Brooks joins BCM during a period of significant growth in sales and distribution across the BCM investment product suite, which includes Bluerock's Total Income+ Real Estate Fund (TI+); Bluerock Value Exchange (BVEX) 1031-Exchange programs (BVEX) and Bluerock Residential Growth REIT (BRG).
"Rebekah has earned a highly respected position in the industry. She is known widely for her professionalism and successes in maintaining partnerships and driving growth at her relationship firms," said Jeffrey S. Schwaber, CEO of Bluerock Capital Markets. "We are delighted to welcome Rebekah as a Senior Vice President Account Manager."
Ms. Brooks will share responsibility for servicing and expanding BCM's broker-dealer partnership network nation-wide and for raising awareness of the full scope of Bluerock's offerings among leading institutions. Ms. Brooks comes to BCM from FS Investments (fka Franklin Square) where she spent the last 6+ years working in the same capacity. Prior to FS Investments, Ms. Brooks spent five years as a National Accounts manager at KBS Capital Markets Group.
"Bluerock has sustained breakout growth in its selling group as well as in its equity capital raise in 2017 and is positioned for continuation of the same in 2018 and beyond. The addition of a national accounts professional of Rebekah's stature will ensure that our broker-dealer partners continue to receive superior service and support as we expand," noted Schwaber.
About Bluerock Capital Markets
Bluerock Capital Markets, LLC serves as the managing broker dealer for Bluerock and is a member of FINRA/SIPC. Formed in 2010, BCM seeks to provide educational information related to institutional investment opportunities for financial advisors and their clients. BCM distributes a broad range of institutional investment products with potential for growth, income, and tax benefits exclusively through broker dealers and investment professionals. BCM ranked #4 for capital fundraising in 2017 among all active managing broker-dealers in the Direct Investment and Portfolio Diversifying Investments Industry.
About Bluerock
Bluerock is a leading alternative investment management firm with over $4.5 billion on Assets Under Management and headquartered in Manhattan with regional offices across the U.S. Bluerock principals have a collective 115+ years of investing experience, have been involved with over $10 billion in investments, and have helped launch leading private and public company platforms.
2018 Bluerock Real Estate, LLC. All rights reserved.
View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bluerock-capital-markets-hires-rebekah-brooks-as-senior-vice-president-of-national-accounts-300588064.html
SOURCE Bluerock Capital Markets, LLC