NEW YORK, January 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
WallStEquities.com strives to bring the best free research to the investment community. Today we are offering reports on RWLK, AVGR, VRAY, and ALGN which can be accessed for free by signing up to http://www.wallstequities.com/registration . WallStEquities.com revisits the Medical Appliances and Equipment industry, which comprises companies that engage in the manufacture of medical instruments, such as dental and surgical appliances. Equities under evaluation this morning are: ReWalk Robotics Ltd (NASDAQ: RWLK), Avinger Inc. (NASDAQ: AVGR), ViewRay Inc. (NASDAQ: VRAY), and Align Technology Inc. (NASDAQ: ALGN). All you have to do is sign up today for this free limited time offer by clicking the link below:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration
ReWalk Robotics
Israel headquartered ReWalk Robotics Ltd's stock finished Thursday's session 4.14% higher at $1.10 with a total trading volume of 85,131 shares. The stock is trading below their 50-day moving average by 3.06%. Shares of the Company, which designs, develops, and commercializes exoskeletons for wheelchair-bound individuals with mobility impairments or other medical conditions, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 50.58.
On January 05 th , 2018, ReWalk Robotics announced that it has appointed its Corporate Controller, Ori Gon, as CFO, effective February 22 nd , 2018, succeeding Kevin Hershberger, who has served as CFO since 2014 and is leaving to pursue an outside opportunity. Mr. Hershberger will work closely with Mr. Gon to ensure a smooth and seamless transition. Get the full research report on RWLK for free by clicking below at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=RWLK
Avinger
Shares in California headquartered Avinger Inc. plummeted 6.48%, ending yesterday's session at $0.19. A total volume of 1.56 million shares was traded, which was above their three months average volume of 1.35 million shares. The stock is trading 15.79% below its 50-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Avinger, which designs, manufactures, and sells image-guided and catheter-based systems used by physicians to treat patients with peripheral arterial disease in the US and Europe, have an RSI of 39.90.
On January 03 rd , 2018, Avinger announced that Arne Schwindt, M.D., a vascular surgeon at St. Franziskus Hospital in M端nster, Germany, has successfully treated the first seven patients with the next generation Pantheris Lumivascular atherectomy system. Dr. Schwindt, an experienced operator of Lumivascular technology, used the next generation Pantheris to treat seven separate patients with a variety of lesion types, including in-stent restenosis, a calcified lesion, and a chronic total occlusion, in arteries above and below the knee. To experience our free membership services anytime/ anywhere and access the free report on AVGR, click to register at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=AVGR
ViewRay
On Thursday, Ohio headquartered ViewRay Inc.'s stock rose slightly by 0.76% to close the day at $9.23. A total volume of 375,078 shares was traded. The Company's shares have advanced 0.54% in the last month, 43.32% in the previous three months, and 67.51% over the past year. The stock is trading 1.27% and 32.81% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of ViewRay, which through its subsidiary, ViewRay Technologies, Inc., designs, manufactures, and markets radiation therapy systems, have an RSI of 50.21.
On January 05 th , 2018, research firm Cantor Fitzgerald resumed its 'Overweight' rating on the Company's stock.
On January 08 th , 2018, ViewRay announced preliminary results for Q4 and full fiscal year ended December 31 st , 2017. In Q4 2017, the Company recognized revenue on four MRIdian Linac Systems, resulting in total 2017 revenue of approximately $34 million primarily from six MRIdian Linac Systems. The Company also received new orders for MRIdian Linac systems during the quarter, totaling approximately $34 million. Additionally, total cash and cash equivalents were approximately $57 million at December 31 st , 2017. Join our big investor community at Wall St. Equities today and get your free report on VRAY at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=VRAY
Align Technology
Shares in California headquartered Align Technology Inc. ended the day 0.47% higher at $273.56. A total volume of 566,316 shares was traded. The stock has surged 22.61% in the last month, 34.28% in the previous three months, and 192.86% over the past year. The Company's shares are trading above their 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 11.24% and 47.31%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Align Technology have an RSI of 68.77.
On January 02 nd , 2018, Align Technology announced that it will release its Q4 FY17 and FY17 financial results on January 30 th , 2018, at 4:00 p.m. ET. Following the press release, the Company will host a conference call at 4:30 p.m. ET to discuss the results. A live audio webcast of the call will be available under the investor page of the Company's website.
On January 19 th , 2018, research firm Stephens downgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Overweight' to 'Equal-Weight'. Know more about ALGN in our free research coverage at:
http://www.wallstequities.com/registration/?symbol=ALGN
Wall St. Equities :
Wall St. Equities (WSE) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. WSE has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
WSE has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES :
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third-party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@wallstequities.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA速 charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by WSE. WSE is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way.
NO WARRANTY
WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, WSE, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither WSE nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit
https://wallstequities.com/legal-disclaimer/
CONTACT
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you ' re a company, we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at:
Email: info@wallstequities.com
Phone number: 21 32 044 483
Office Address: 1 Scotts Road #24-10, Shaw Center Singapore 228
CFA速 and Chartered Financial Analyst速 are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
SOURCE Wall St. Equities