BUFFALO, N.Y., Jan. 29, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Buffalo Games, LLC is pleased to announce its recent hire of Mark Thoma, who will join company as Vice President of Business Development. In this role, Thoma will work to further game innovation and pave a path of continued growth at Buffalo Games.
"We have had tremendous growth and success in both the board game and jigsaw puzzle categories at mass market and online retailers. Buffalo Games' biggest asset is its team and innovative culture that nurtures creativity and consumer engagement in a fast-paced and fun environment. Mark's passion for the category, unique talents, and entrepreneurial spirit will further enable us in building even deeper associations with key licensors and accelerate our portfolio gains," said Nagendra Raina, President of Buffalo Games.
Mark joins Buffalo Games with a highly successful and established career with Target that started in July 2006, with roles in Business Analytics, Replenishment, Merchandise Planning, Supply Chain Special Projects, and Buyer responsibilities for various categories of business. In his final position with Target he was the Director of Merchandise Buying for Toys since October 2013. Mark was responsible for making Target a destination for adult, social strategy, and party games. His passion towards innovation, trend spotting, and a mindset to challenge the status quo has led to category growth and assisted the resurgence of the "gaming culture" in America.
"Buffalo Games thrives on delivering fun for the consumers and driving results for our retailer partners. With Mark joining our team, we are poised to build partnerships and drive robust category gains at retail," said Raina.
For additional information, please contact Brent Feuz at 716-464-5246, email bfeuz@buffalogames.com .
About Buffalo Games
Buffalo Games is an industry-leading jigsaw puzzle and game manufacturer located in Buffalo, New York. Buffalo Games products are available at all major retailers in the U.S.A. and Canada. Over the company's 30-year history, Buffalo Games has sold more than 40 million puzzles and party games. The company's portfolio includes popular licenses such as Nat Geo's Brain Games, Charles Wysocki, Darrell Bush, The Hautman Brothers, Josephine Wall, Star Wars and Terry Redlin. All of Buffalo Game's products are produced with a careful eye toward quality and sustainable practices.
Find us at www.buffalogames.com or on Facebook at www.facebook.com/buffalogames .
Contact Information:
Brent Feuz, 716-464-5246
Bfeuz@buffalogames.com
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/buffalo-games-hires-industry-leader-as-vice-president-of-business-development-300589543.html
SOURCE Buffalo Games