TAMPA, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Seventh paragraph, reference to ETC Partners of release dated 1-3-18 should read: King Engineering and the Ardurra Group operate as a portfolio company of RTC Partners, LLC. RTC Partners, LLC is a New York based private equity firm… (instead of King Engineering and the Ardurra Group operate as a portfolio company of ETC Partners, LLC. ETC Partners, LLC is a New York based private equity firm…)
The corrected release reads:
KING ACQUIRES CTT ENGINEERING
King Engineering has acquired Criser Troutman Tanner Consulting Engineers (CTT), a North Carolina based full-service engineering firm. CTT specializes in civil and structural engineering for private and public-sector clients.
With the addition of CTT, King Engineering, which recently merged with Ardurra Group, the company has ~300 professionals throughout 15 offices serving the Gulf Coast, the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic.
CTT will continue to operate as CTT in the North Carolina market from offices in Wilmington, Raleigh and Charlotte.
King Engineering’s Managing Partner, Rick Cloutier, explained, “Serving our clients remains at the forefront. CTT’s specialized engineers complement our existing staff and will help to improve delivery for our clients. CTT further provides a broad geographic footprint and deepens our structural and civil engineering capabilities.”
David Criser, CTT’s President adds, “Joining the King Engineering team enables us to provide additional opportunities to our staff by expanding our geographic and client base.”
Straddling, Yocca, Carlson and Rauth, P.C. acted as legal counsel and BDO USA, LLP acted as financial and tax advisor on behalf of RTC partners and its affiliates.
King Engineering and the Ardurra Group operate as a portfolio company of RTC Partners, LLC. RTC Partners, LLC is a New York based private equity firm that partners with managers of middle market companies to unlock growth opportunities. Further information is available at www.rtcpartners.com .
View source version on businesswire.com : http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180103006230/en/
Ardurra-King
Cinnamon Wagener, 346-666-5192
cwagener@ardurragroup.com
Source: King Engineering